
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
Bengaluru
A Safety Analysis Report


--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
The manual safety audits were conducted by the volunteers from WRI India and B-PAC. 
We are thankful for their collaboration. 


--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
Safetipin, is a map-based mobile phone and
online application, which works to make
communities and cities safer by providing safety
related information collected by users and by
trained auditors.
At the core of the app is the Safety Audit. A
Safety Audit is a participatory tool for collecting
and assessing information about perceptions of
safety in public spaces. The audit is based on
nine parameters – Lighting, Openness, Visibility,
Crowd, Security, Walkpath, Availability of Public
Transport, Gender Diversity and Feeling.
Methodology
The safety audits have been generated using two
methods. First, manual audits were conducted
by volunteers from WRI India and B-PAC using
My Safetipin app.
Secondly, safety audits have been generated
using the Safetipin Nite app. The assessment was
done post sunset till 10 pm. Mobile phones were
mounted on the windshield of the taxis’, and
using the app photographs of the city roads were
taken. These photographs were then assessed
based on the eight audit parameters to generate
audit pins at each location.
A total of 17,128 audits have been generated
over 1,431 km of road length.
Overall, the Safety Score for Bengaluru is rated
3.2/5 i.e. Good.
BENGALURU
Lighting measures the amount of brightness/
illumination at a place and ranges from Dark to
Bright. A place can be lit with street lighting or
from other sources.
Openness refers to whether a person has a good
line of sight in all directions.
Visibility refers to how visible is one to others. It
is based on the principle of ‘eyes on the street’.
This comprises windows-doors of shops, houses
along with street vendors and hawkers.
People indicates the number of people around.
This increases as a consequence of usage
opportunities.
Security refers to visible security offered either
by the police or private security guards (for
example along ATM/Bank).
Walkpath indicates whether a person can
comfortably walk at a place. This could refer to
the quality of a pavement or space along a road.
Transport refers to the ease of accessing any
mode of public transport i.e.
metro/bus/auto/taxi etc. and is measured in
terms of the distance to the nearest mode.
Gender is about diversity i.e. the percentage of
women and children amongst the crowd. This
increases as a consequence of safety perception.
17,128 Audit Pins
1,431 km covered


--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
5%
18%
21%
22%
34%
Map indicating Safety Score Rating 
Safety Score
The Safety Score of a point is a reflection of the
perception of safety at that particular location.
For each audit point it is a number between 0
and 5, 0 being Poor i.e. Very Unsafe and 5 being
Excellent in terms of overall safety.
Indicated in the pie chart is the percentage
distribution of pins in each range. The Safety
Score has also been indicated in the map below.
5%
18%
21%
22%
34%

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
Average Audit Parameters (on a scale of 3)
Pin Distribution for each Parameter
Parameter Ratings
Each of the nine parameters is rated 0/1/2/3, 0
being the poorest and 3 good. The average
parameter ratings graph indicates the overall
average rating for each parameter.
Lighting parameter has been rated the highest
followed by Openness, Walkpath and Public
Transport. Security and Gender Usage are the
least rated parameter i.e. Poor. The overall
feeling of Safety for the city of Bengaluru is rated
Below Average.
Parameter-wise Pin Distribution
The Parameter wise pin distribution graph
indicates the number of points rated 0/1/2/3 i.e.
the good points as positive and poor ratings as
negative.
The parameter of Security, Gender Usage,
Visibility and Crowd have been rated poorly for
the most parts of the city. Lighting and
accessibility to Public Transport needs to be
improved in some parts of the city.
Gap Impact Analysis
All parameters do not have an equal impact on
the perception of safety. It is therefore useful to
know how an improvement in each parameter
will impact the Safety Score of the area. The
Impact Bar shown indicates the extent of
influence and the relative impact that each
parameter has on the perception of safety. The
combined length indicates the impact potential
of the parameter. The parameters with the
maximum combined length have the highest
impact on the perception of safety and vice
versa i.e. Lighting has the maximum impact and
Transportation the least. The positive length (in
green) indicates the extent of provision that has
already been made on ground. The negative
length (in red) indicates the (remaining) amount
of improvement needed to increase the Safety
Score.
Increase in Crowd and Gender Usage is
dependent on other parameters. Improving
Lighting, Visibility and Security on the streets of
Bengaluru will result in safer public spaces.
Gap Impact Graph
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
-20000
-15000
-10000
-5000
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
-0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6
Lighting
Openess
Visibility
Crowd
Security
Walkpath
Public Transport
Gender Usage

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
Map indicating Lighting Rating 
Lighting in the city has been rated 2.1/3 i.e. Above Average. Most of the main roads of the city are well- lit, however
some streetlights were found to be non- functional at the time of the audits. Few audit points were found to be dark
spots i.e. no streetlights are installed. These points are shown in the map on the following page.
At points with streetlights installed on only one side, it has resulted in well lit vehicular carriageway but poorly lit
footpath. Pedestrian scale streetlights are needed at these points to ensure uniform illumination on the streets.
Lighting
2.1 / 3 
6%
18%
41%
35%

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
Map indicating low rating (0,1) rating based off inoperative or no streetlights 
Image showing street with no lights
Regular 
maintenance 
checks should be 
carried out to 
ensure that the 
streetlights are 
functioning 
properly.
Image showing non-functional streetlights

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
Map indicating points with inadequate illumination along the main roads 
Poorly lit footpath due to streetlight being 
installed only on one side
Pedestrian scale 
lighting should 
be installed 
along the 
footpath. 
Pruning of 
leaves should 
be carried out 
regularly.
Inadequate illumination due to streetlights being 
hidden among the leaves


--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
Map indicating Walkpath Rating 
Walk path in the city has been rated 1.9/3 i.e. Above Average. Though most of the city has a fair availability of
footpath, the condition of same should be improved. Analyzing audits which gave low ratings to the Walkpath
parameter, it was found that it was due to existing unpaved or no pavement along the main roads. At points with
highly rated Walkpath, it was found to be obstructed by cars, signage, streetlights etc. Signage, streetlights should be
installed along the edge of the footpath, clear of the pedestrian path.
Walkpath
1.9 / 3 
10%
15%
49%
26%

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
Map indicating points with broken, unmade or no walk paths. 
Image showing unpaved pavement Image showing a broken pavement
The pavement 
should be 
properly paved, 
and maintained 
to ensure 
smooth 
movement for 
the pedestrians. 


--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
Map indicating Visibility Rating 
Visibility in the city has been rated 1.2/3 i.e. Below Average. This is due to high boundary walls at some audit points
resulting in poor visibility. To improve visibility, the height of solid part of the boundary wall should be reduced to
maintain some transparency between streets and the buildings.
At some points, street side vendors and hawkers were found acting as natural surveillance. Designated space should
be provided for them along the footpath, clear of the pedestrian path.
28%
34%
23%
15%
Visibility
1.2 / 3 

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
Map indicating points with high crowd but no visibility and no security
The map above shows audit 
points where there is no 
security and no visibility but 
highly rated in terms of 
crowd. These spots need to be 
taken up for police patrolling. 
All the audit points with high 
boundary walls or unused 
land can be seen on the 
following page. 


--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
Map indicating poor Visibility rating due to boundary walls or unused land
High boundary walls acting as barrier on the streets Unused Land along the large stretches results in poor visibility

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
Map indicating Public Transport rating 
Public Transport in the city has been rated 1.8/3 i.e. Above Average. While 65% of the city has a bus stop within
150m, the red points in the eastern part and peripheries of the city indicates that no bus stop is present within 400 m
radius of that audit point. Bus network needs to be improved around these points. To ensure last mile connectivity
from the bus stops and metro stations, designated parking bays should be provided for para transit modes.
Additionally, street furniture and public convenience should be provided for the commuters and the drivers. .
Public Transport
1.8 / 3 
11%
24%
41%
24%


--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
Map indicates Safety Score at the existing bus stops
Bus Stops
A total of 1,881 bus stops were audited using Safetipin app. The Safety Score map as shown below shows most of the
bus stops have been rated excellent in terms of overall safety. The maps showing individual parameter rating i.e the
level of lighting, condition of the walkpath, visibility and presence of people around the bus stops after sunset are on
the following pages. Lighting was found to be adequate, however walkpath was found to be broken or unpaved at
some points. From Visibility and Crowd maps, it was found that that two parameters are co-related. More people
were found at bus stops that are high rated in terms of visibility.

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
Lighting
Walkpath

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
Visibility
Crowd

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
M13/31, DLF PHASE 2, GURGAON – 122001
http://www.safetipin.com
+91- 124 - 4033075       info@safetipin.com
