
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
Prepared by Safetipin                 
WOMEN'S SAFETY AUDIT OF TONDIARPET
FINAL REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
This work is for the official use only of the Direct Recipient of this report. It is not to be shared with other parties or the public through any means, 
without the prior permission of the World Bank.


--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
2 3
The grants which finance this activity were received from the World Bank through its the Mobility and 
Logistics Trust Fund as part of the Chennai City Partnership on Urban Mobility and Spatial Development. 
The team thanks representatives from Greater Chennai Corporation for facilitating the implementation of 
this research. 
The Team that implemented this activity includes:
Safetipin:
Rwitee Mandal, Senior Program Manager
Shilpy Mehta, Senior Program Associate
Coding Team: Abhinandan, Toshi, Pinky, Pragati, Rubia
The World Bank:
Gerald Ollivier, Team Leader
Tatiana Peralta Quiroz, Co-Team Leader
Sarah Natasha, Consultant, Gender Responsive Mobility
Jaishree Jindel, Transport Specialist
Disclaimer 
© 2021 The World Bank Group 
1818 H Street NW 
Washington DC 20433 
Telephone: 202-473-1000 
Internet: www.worldbank.org 
This work is a product of Safetipin with inputs of staff of The World Bank Group for the World Bank 
Group. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this work do not necessarily reflect the 
views of The World Bank, its Board of Executive Directors, or the governments they represent. 
The World Bank does not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in this work. The boundaries, colors, 
denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do not imply any judgment on the 
part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of 
such boundaries. 
Any third party should obtain prior consent of the World Bank before copying or reproducing, in whole or 
in part, the contents of this report.
Cover Photo: https://unsplash.com/guru_nathan_25
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
4 5
WOMEN'S SAFETY AUDIT 
OF TONDIARPET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Project Team 3
INTRODUCTION
Women Safety Audit of Public Spaces  6
METHODOLOGY
Safety Audit Methodology 8
DATA COLLECTION
Using Safetipin Nite 12
Using My Safetipin 14
FINDINGS
Safety Mapping                                            16
Accessibility Mapping                                26 
Data Analysis                                                32
RECOMMENDATIONS
Action Points 40
Urban Design Strategies 54
 
APPENDIX
Examples of CSV Files 56

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
76
INTRODUCTION
Safety, accessibility and inclusion in public space 
TONDIARPET 
WOMEN SAFETY AUDIT 
OF PUBLIC SPACES
Sexual harassment against women and gender-based 
violence in public spaces and public transport affect gender 
equality in India. In Chennai similar issues of safety and 
accessibility adversely affects women’s mobility, especially 
their ability to access employment, education, health care 
services, and leisure activities. According to 2019 National 
Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data, Chennai has recorded 
fewer cases of crimes against women vis-a-vis other metro 
regions. However, there has been a slight increase in the 
number of cases between 2017 (642) and 2019 (729). In 
contrast to the low number of reported crimes, a study 
conducted by AWARE in Chennai found that more than 50 
percent of women interviewed had faced some form of 
harassment while traveling on public transport.
According to the State Crime Records Bureau, under 
POSCO (The Protection of Children from Sexual Offence 
Act), 2,358 cases were registered in 2019, followed by 
molestation of women (803), cruelty by husbands and 
relatives (781), kidnapping and abduction (699) and rape 
(362). Cases booked under POSCO, molestation, cruelty 
by husband and his relatives, kidnapping and abduction 
together constitute 78.2% and rape accounted for 6.1% of 
the crime against women. 
Nevertheless, we recognise that reported crime is probably 
only the tip of the iceberg and violence against women 
and girls is a much more pervasive phenomenon than 
demonstrated by crime statistics. It is only over the past 
decade that there has been an increased focus on public 
spaces and cities. Numerous research studies have 
been conducted to understand women's experience and 
participation in cities. In Delhi, Jagori has conducted several 
research studies and safety audits to better understand 
women’s actual experience and response to urban 
situations. Research has also been carried out in Mumbai 
by Akshara and cities in Kerala by Sakhi which point to 
similar findings of fear and exclusion for women.
Public spaces are an integral part of our cities and play 
a pivotal role in enhancing liveability. Therefore, careful 
design and thoughtful management of public spaces can 
significantly impact liveability of urban areas. Well planned 
and designed public spaces in urban settings can improve 
social inclusion, civic participation and enhance overall 
safety for all groups in the city. To ensure that all groups 
can equally access and use public spaces and other public 
services in the city, it is essential to build a safe and inclusive 
environment with a focus on public transport.
Presence of safe public spaces and public transport in 
cities enable people to access various opportunities and 
enjoy their right to the city. Lack of safety in both public 
spaces and public transport can restrict people’s mobility. 
These impact vulnerable groups - the poor, elderly, women, 
children and disabled - deeply. Unsafe public spaces impede 
women’s access to social and economic opportunities in 
life. Research has shown that both violence and fear of 
violence in public spaces including public transport instills 
a sense of fear in the mind of girls and women. A recent 
survey conducted by Observer Research Foundation in 2021, 
shows that 57 percent of women reported public transport 
in India to be unsafe, with a similar number - 56 percent, 
reporting that they have been sexually harassed while using 
public transport.  Another conducted by Safetipin and FIA 
Foundation in 2020 says, sexual harassment in public places 
and public transport is quite common. 44% auditors (mostly 
girls and women in the neighbourhood) reported feeling 
unsafe at public places including streets, markets, bus stops. 
The issue of women's safety in the city has come to the 
forefront primarily because of incidents of violence. 
Beyond the actual experience of violence though, the 
experience of the city for women and girls is often one of 
fear and exclusion. The issue needs to be seen as a form 
of discrimination faced by women and girls in cities which 
prevents their free movement and ability to access the city.
WOMEN IN PUBLIC SPACES OF CHENNAI 3. North Chennai is considered relatively unsafe compared to 
the rest of the city. 
4. The area has connectivity with public buses, sub-urban rail 
and a new metro line.
The focused study of Tondiarpet will help guide the existing 
projects and propose recommendations for implementing 
additional projects.
UNESCO's definition of public space refers to an area or 
place that is open and accessible to all people, regardless 
of gender, race, ethnicity, age or socio-economic level. 
These are public gathering spaces such as plazas, squares 
and parks. Spaces connecting these, such as footpaths and 
streets, are also public spaces. Within such reference, the 
study collected data mainly on the streets and footpaths 
to evaluate safety, accessibility and inclusion; conducted 
analysis of the collected data and gave recommendations 
to improve streets and footpaths. In addition, this project 
intended to provide analysed data to city stakeholders for 
decision making in order to make city spaces accessible, safe 
and inclusive by responding to the priority issues identified 
through the use of the Safetipin application.
The ‘women safety audit of public spaces’ was conducted 
using two application - Safetipin Nite and My safetipin. 
The study mapped through images of all the main roads 
of Tondiarpet. The app provided large scale data at the 
street level to investigate on the challenges on safety and 
accessibility encountered by women while using public 
spaces in the area. Further it conducted analysis of the 
data and highlighted the issues around safety, accessibility 
and inclusion and provided recommendations to improve 
women's access to and participation in public spaces, and to 
meet the current and future demands of the area exclusively 
for public space usability. This data could be valuable source 
of information for both citizens and governments. The details 
of how the applications were used and data was produced 
to give recommendations for improvement are given in the 
following chapters.
Lack of safety has adverse implications on the life of girls 
and women. These include lack of self-confidence, low 
productivity levels and most importantly it reduces their 
access to opportunities. To encourage girls and women to 
use public spaces freely, it must be made safe, inclusive and 
accessible particularly keeping the perspectives of women 
and girls in mind.
To address the safety concerns of women and girls in 
Chennai and to improve access, mobility and inclusion in 
the city, this project collected data on the quality, usage 
and perceptions of public spaces, particularly from a safety 
perspective of women and girls.
A Women’s Safety Audit (WSA) was piloted in Tondiarpet, 
Chennai, using Safetipin digital tools to provide accurate data 
on aspects of the built environmental which are linked to 
safety, accessibility and inclusion for women in public spaces. 
This information can be integrated into existing government 
GIS platforms and used to guide policies and interventions 
by the Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN). WSAs have been 
used successfully globally, including in India, where data and 
evidence collected through such audits has led to a number 
of city-wide public infrastructure up-gradation projects which 
subsequently has improved the usage of spaces in the city.
Tondiarpet – George Town – Thiruvottiyur in Chennai was 
identified as the project area (18.75 Sq Km). It is located 
in the northern part of Chennai and is adjacent to other 
important regions of Chennai including George Town, 
which lies to the south. The region has its own railway 
station, Tondiarpet Railway Station, on the Chennai Central–
Gummidipoondi Line. Trade and commerce along with 
manufacturing and distribution enterprises are predominant 
activities found at Tondiarpet. 
Tondiarpet was identified for the following reasons as the 
project area. 
1. It is one of the projects under the ‘mega-street’ program 
initiated by GCC aimed at redesigning and developing streets 
in Chennai to be future-ready and Non-Motorised Transport 
friendly incorporating various aspects of mobility, utility and 
liveability over 2021 to 2023. 
2. Various areas in this location have been selected under 
the Nirbhaya Fund for installing safety poles, aimed at 
making areas safer for women. 
WOMEN SAFETY AUDIT BY SAFETIPIN

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
98
METHODOLOGY
Safety mapping using Safetipin applications
  
SAFETY AUDIT METHODOLOGY
The ratings for each of the parameters 
are defined on a scale of 0-3
Image on left
THE RATING RUBRIC
Parameter Score 0 Score 1 Score 2 Score 3
None Little Enough Bright
No street or   
other lights
Can see lights, 
but there is low 
visibility in the 
area
Lighting is 
enough for clear 
visibility
Whole area 
brightly lit
Not Open Partly Open Mostly Open Completely 
Open
No Eyes Few Eyes More Eyes Highly Visible
No windows or 
entrances of 
shops or 
residences 
overlook the 
point
Less than 5 
windows or 
entrances 
overlook the 
point
Less than 10 
windows or 
entrances and 
vendors overlook 
the point
More than 10 
windows or 
entrances and 
vendors overlook 
this point
Deserted Few People Some Crowd Crowded
No one in sight Less than 10 
people in sight
More than 10 
people visible
Many people 
within touching 
distance
None Minimal Moderate High 
No guards or 
police visible in 
surrounding area
Some private 
security visible in 
surrounding area 
but not nearby
Private security 
within hailing 
distance
Police / reliable 
security within 
hailing distance
None Poor Fair Good 
No walking path 
available
Path exists but in 
very bad 
condition
Can walk but    
not run
Easy to walk    
fast or run
Unavailable Distant Nearby Very Close
No metro, bus, 
auto/rickshaw 
stop within 10 
mins walk
Metro or bus 
auto/rickshaw 
stop between 5-
10 mins walk
Metro or bus, 
auto/rickshaw 
stop between 2-5 
mins walk
Metro or bus, 
auto/rickshaw 
available within 2 
mins walk
Not Diverse Somewhat 
Diverse Fairly Diverse Diverse
No one in sight, 
or only men
Mostly men, very 
few women or 
children
Some women 
and children
Balance of all 
genders or more 
women and 
children
Frightening Uncomfortable Acceptable Comfortable
Not venture here 
without sufficient 
escort
Will avoid this 
place whenever 
possible
Feel safe enough, 
but will be 
careful
Feel safe here 
even after dark
Can see clearly in 
all directions
Feeling
Walk Path
Public 
Transport
Gender 
Usage
Visibility
People
Security
Lighting 
(Night)
Many blind 
corners and no 
clear sightlines
Able to see a 
little ahead and 
around
Able to see in 
most directions
Openness
SAFETIPIN AUDIT PARAMETERS TO EVALUATE SAFETY AND ACCESSIBILITY IN PUBLIC SPACES:
Lighting – Availability of enough light to see all around you
Walkpath – Either a pavement or road with space to walk
Public Transport – Availability of public transport like metro, buses, autos, rickshaws
Visibility – Vendors, shops, building entrances, windows and balconies from where you can be seen
Security – Presence of formal police or private guards
People – Number of people around you
Gender Usage – Presence of women and children near you
Openness – Ability to see clearly and move in all directions
Feeling – How safe do you feel
Two Safetipin applications are used for this project - Safetipin 
Nite and My Safetipin. 
Safetipin Nite application generates data by clicking pictures 
across the city via a phone camera mounted on the 
windshield of a moving vehicle. Photos are taken to capture 
pedestrian’s safety and accessibility conditions at regular 
intervals of 30-50 metres. Every picture is geo-tagged and 
uploaded on to a server and further analysed by a team 
of expert coders using Safetipin parameters and sub-
parameters. These eventually are translated into data sets 
that appear as audit points on Safetipin maps. This image 
bank of GIS data is then shared with local stakeholders, 
government authorities and concerned organisations 
in order to address and improve safety and accessibility 
conditions in the city.
IMAGE MAPPING WITH SAFETIPIN NITE
My Safetipin application has the Women’s Safety Audit at its 
core. Based on the global experience of 20 years on safety 
audits, 8 important parameters namely, lighting, walk path, 
public transport, visibility, openness, crowd, gender diversity 
and security that define safety perceptions are fixed. Feeling 
being the ninth parameter is exclusively on perception. 
These together help to understand the perception of safety 
of public spaces. A location is audited based on these nine 
parameters. Each safety audit results in a pin on the specific 
geo-tagged location where the audit was performed and also 
records the time and date. Results of the safety audit are 
aggregated to a ‘Safety Score’ for areas and neighbourhoods.  
The information on the application specifically focuses on 
the experience of women and girls, providing them with an 
interactive and empowering tool around feelings of safety.
PUBLIC SPACE AUDITS WITH MY SAFETIPIN

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
1110
METHODOLOGY
Lighting Visibility Walkpath Security Public Transport
No SL 50% Boundary 
Wall No Pavement Private Guards Metro/Rail
Off SL 100% Boundary 
Wall
Broken 
Pavement Police Van/Bike Bus/Mini bus
Dim SL Unused Land Unpaved 
Pavement Police Check Auto/Shared 
Auto
High SL Road side 
Vendors Car Blocking Police Booth Cycle Rickshaw
Too Far SL Temporary 
Stalls Vendor Blocking Police Station Taxi
Leaves cover 
SL Shops Houses 
Extending Other Govt. Rental Bicycle
Other cover SL Houses upto 4 
Floors Trees Blocking
One side SL Houses >4 
Floors Other Blocking
Walkable Road
On-street 
Parking
Rubric showing all the sub-parameters for the 
listed five parameters 
Image on left
SUB-PARAMETER RUBRIC
GIS layer of street  lighting on Google Maps 
with image links
Image on left
TONDIARPET'S POOR  
WALKPATH AS GIS LAYER
The map shows locations in the city where 
there is no or poor street lighting
Image on left
TONDIARPET'S POOR 
WALKPATH AS AUDIT MAP
The photographs collected through Safetipin Nite are 
uploaded onto the Safetipin server. These are then accessed 
on the portal and analysed on a wide range of parameters 
linked to accessibility, safety and inclusivity of public spaces. 
For deeper analysis, a set of sub-parametres for the 
parameters of Lighting, Walkpath, Public Transport, Visibility 
and Security are used for recording additional information. 
The complete list of sub-parameters is given here. Google 
Maps are also used to identify the sub-parameters. Every 
100 metres, an audit is generated at a point by using all the 
photographs collected around that point.
Based on the collected and coded data, the Safetipin team 
analyses and produces maps and reports that can be used 
for actual on ground responses and actions to work toward 
improving safety and accessibility on the streets and public 
spaces in cities. Maps are produced on each parameter with 
geo-tagged location of audit points, supported with images. 
These maps could be seen on Google Maps too for easier 
assess to information. Data is also analysed in terms of 
correlations and linkages with other possible data sets which 
further supports or reinforce the findings. Based on these 
analyses, a concrete set of recommendations are drawn out 
for key stakeholders for city improvement programs.
To gain a deeper understanding of accessibility and safety 
in public spaces of Tondiarpet, a thorough investigation on 
accessibility was done. Safetipin Nite was used to map the 
area twice - during the day and after dark. An additional set 
of accessibility parameters apart from the standard Safetipin 
parameters explained before were applied to assess the 
status of physical accessibility in the area especially from 
a user’s perspective. Since walking is a basic and common 
means of access in the city, walkpaths which facilitate 
walking, become the crucial form of urban infrastructure 
which provides physical access to services and resources. 
Day and night image mapping of walkpaths were put 
together to analyse the ease of accessibility in the area. The 
additional accessibility parameters applied are as follows:
ACCESSIBILITY MAPPING WITH SAFETIPIN NITE
GENERATING MAPS, ANALYSES AND REPORTS 
Image below
Snapshot of the coding screen showing the parameters and sub-parameters 
DATA CODING ON SAFETIPIN PORTAL
Footpath Conditions:
Non-existent footpath
Broken, unpaved, dis-continuous footpath 
Availability of curb ramps, median breaks and zebra crossings
Footpath Barriers:
Garbage, construction debris/material dumped on footpaths
Vehicles parked on footpaths
House and shop extensions onto footpaths
Temporary stalls and vendors obstructing footpaths
Light, electric, signage and advert poles obstructing footpath

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
1312
DATA COLLECTION
Data collection using Safetipin Applications
  
DATA COLLECTION
As soon as the lockdown and night curfew due to the 
second wave Covid crisis in Chennai was lifted and vehicular 
movement was allowed in the city after dark, Safetipin 
conducted ‘Online Data Collectors' Training Program’ with 
the verified drivers and field investigators assigned by a 
resource agency in Chennai. The agency - Market Xcel hired 
by Safetipin supported the Safetipin team to individually train 
every driver and field investigators through online sessions 
given by Safetipin team to use ‘Safetipin Nite’ application on 
the smart phones provided by Safetipin.
Over the app training sessions, Safetipin Nite App was 
introduced to two field investigators and two drivers who 
were chosen for the work. They were even trained to use 
the app in their personal phones as backups. Alongside, 
they were also trained on how to mount the phones on the 
windshields of the cars to do the image collection. Pre-
assigned data collection routes were run on their phones 
and few rounds of test runs were done with the field 
investigators and drivers to check the accuracy of the image 
collection process.
Photo collected through Safetipin Nite app - 
an example of a good image
Image on left
GOOD IMAGE
Safetipin Nite app running on volunteer's and 
driver's smart phones 
Image on left
DATA COLLECTION CAR
Photo collected through Safetipin Nite app - 
an example of a bad image 
Image on left
BAD IMAGE
A distance of 321 km were covered by the drivers and their 
respective field investigators in Tondiarpet, collecting 20070 
images of the area between 6:30pm to 9:00pm. Similarly, 
the area was also mapped during the day between 3:00pm 
to 5:30pm for mapping accessibility conditions. The quality 
of most of the images collected were certified good after 
an initial round of review by the Safetipin team and were 
processed for the main visual analysis. The field investigators 
and drivers worked efficiently in collecting data with the help 
of Safetipin Nite app. 
Nevertheless, we met with a couple of challenges. These are 
as follows: 
On certain routes because of the road width being 
insufficient for vehicles it was difficult accessing them. 
We received a small percentage of shaky images due to bad 
road condition, water logging in monsoons and rain water 
blurring the camera view.
DATA COLLECTORS ONLINE APP TRAINING DATA COLLECTION WITH SAFETIPIN NITE
Data collection details:
Total area covered: 19.3 Sq Km
Total road length covered: 321 Km
Image collection time: 
Day - 3:00 pm to 5:30 pm, Night - 6:30 pm to 9:00 pm
Total images collected: 20070 nos
Total audits points - 1098

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
1514
DATA COLLECTION
Data collection using Safetipin Applications
DATA COLLECTION
Photo collected through My Safetipin app - an 
example of a bad image
Image on left
BAD IMAGE
My Safetipin app screen showing all the nine 
audit parameters
Image on left
MY SAFETIPIN SCREEN 
Photo collected through My Safetipin app - an 
example of a good image
Image on left
GOOD IMAGE
Two women data collectors were selected by the resource 
agency for conducting public space safety audits. Safetipin 
team trained both the women data collectors through 
two online 'App Training' sessions. The first session of the 
training initiated informal discussions with the data collectors 
on women’s safety in public spaces and the significance of 
safety audits. The second session was conducted on the user 
generated audits using My Safetipin application. 
During the second session, the women data collectors were 
introduced with the functioning of the My Safetipin app and 
were helped to install the app in their smart phones. After 
installing the app each data collector did some trial audits to 
make sure that they have understood the process correctly. 
After trial audits were done, each volunteer was assigned 
with areas which were convenient for them to access and 
do the safety audits. These two sessions of the training 
complemented each other in generating quality data at the 
end of the audits.
13 public places comprising of transport stations, markets, 
schools, colleges and parks were audited. Each audit place 
generated 10-15 audit points in and around the identified 
locations.
While we were able to collect good quality data but due 
to the ongoing pandemic, Safetipin team had to re-train 
a second batch of data collectors as the first one could 
not perform the expected work. This duplication of work 
extended the data collection process. Women auditors at 
few instances were not able to audit public spaces at night. 
PUBLIC SPACE AUDITS WITH MY SAFETIPIN
Public spaces audited with My Safetipin app:
Railway Station - Chennai Fort
Metro Station - New Washermenpet Station
Bus Stop - Broadway Bus Stop
School - St Annes Girls' Higher Secondary School
College 
Ibrahim Salai Bharathi Arts College
Kanniyaga Parameswari Women's College
Hostel - Arts College Hostel
Park - Thiyagaraya Park
Market
Tondiarpet Market
Periya/Washermanpet Market
Kasimedu Fish Market
Hospital - Mint Street Apollo Hospital
Public Building - High Court

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
16 17
FINDINGS
Parameter maps and safety ratings
WOMEN'S SAFETY AUDIT
FINDINGS
After analysis of the collected data by Safetipin Nite in Tondiarpet, representational maps for six key 
parameters were prepared for data visualisation. The following parameter maps represent the data 
as audit points generated through image analysis technique. The parameter maps also include user 
generated audits points by My Safetipin. An overall map showing the aggregated Safety Score of all the 
parameters combined is generated for safety rating for the audited locations in Tondiarpet. These maps 
help to read and compare the data geographically and understand where the gap lies in making public 
spaces safe and accessible, especially for women and others. 
Overall, 1098 audit points were generated for Tondiarpet.
Geo-located Safety Audit points by Safetipin Nite - 919 and by My Safetipin - 179.
The map below shows the safety audit points mapped by Safetipin Nite application.
User generated public space audits with My Safetipin app:
Two women data collectors audited the selected public spaces in Tondiarpet. As an additional layer of information they 
included comments for some of their audits. An assortment of comments with user insights are given below for analysis 
"No lights nothing, very afraid to walk in the streets." 
"Women feel uncomfortable because no lighting facility there." 
"Some space is there in the road side but no proper walk path."
"Crowded area always full of vehicles, no space to walk, may meet with an accident because of no space."
"No vehicles, autos nearby, need walk for 10 mins."
"Shops closed no female at all."
"Police booth were there but no police presence." 
Of the nine parameters used for mapping and evaluation of public space, Lighting, Walkpath, Public 
Transport and Visibility are actionable parameters on which physical interventions are possible. People 
(presence of people on the streets), Gender Diversity (presence of women, children and others in the 
public domain) and Feeling (perception of safety) are used to measure the impact of the actionable 
parameters on safety, accessibility and inclusion in public spaces. Security and Openness are parameters 
which provide supplementary information for overall analysis. 
Findings on the actionable parameters Lighting, Walkpath, Public Transport, Visibility are given below 
along with People and Gender Diversity.
The map below shows the safety audit points mapped by My Safetipin  application.

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
18 19
91%
91% of the area has adequate street lighting and only 
9% has not any or poor street lighting. When this data is 
represented geographically (map below) it is seen that 
areas with lower ratings on street lighting are sporadically 
spread across at few locations. This means, either 
there are not any or non-functional street lighting in 
these parts of the mapped area. This geo-located data, 
provided as a GIS layer, could be used for improving 
street lighting in the area and making it fully functional.
1% 8%
51%
40%
OF THE AREA MAPPED HAS 
ADEQUATE STREETLIGHTS
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the parameter map below. 
Tally with the legend below.
35%
35% of the area has walkable footpaths, rest 65% scores 
poorly on the same. When this data is represented 
geographically (map below) it is seen that areas with 
lower ratings on footpaths are spread across the 
mapped area with an exception of a small part at the 
southern end and along few corridors leading north. 
This means, either there are not any or very poor quality 
footpaths in these parts of the city. A detailed footpath 
analysis follows to understand accessibility better.
14%
51%
25%
10%
OF THE AREA MAPPED HAS 
WALKABLE FOOTPATHS
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the parameter map below. 
Tally with the legend below.

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
20 21
85%
58% of the area has public transport stands/stops within 
2-5 minutes walking distance, 27% can reach them in 
5-10 minutes and the rest 15% does not have any formal 
or informal transport stands/stops reachable within 10 
minutes. When this data is represented geographically 
(map below) it is seen that areas with lower ratings on 
public transport are in a clusters in the south and in 
small clusters at few more locations moving north. This 
means, formal public transport stands/stops are either 
unavailable or not within reach in these parts.
2%
13%
27%58%
OF THE AREA MAPPED HAS PUBLIC 
TRANSPORT STOPS WITHIN REACH
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the parameter map below. 
Tally with the legend below.
65%
65% of the area has good visibility or has active streets, 
i.e., these parts have less number of high boundary 
walls or blank facades facing the streets and have more 
people, vendors, shops on the streets. But 35% of the 
area still scores poorly on the same. When this data is 
represented geographically (map below) it is seen that 
areas with lower ratings on visibility are spread across the 
mapped area with some long stretches along a western 
corridor by the sea in the north. This means, either there 
are not any or very low visibility.
11%
24%
34%
31%
OF THE AREA MAPPED HAS 
GOOD VISIBILITY 
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the parameter map below. 
Tally with the legend below.

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
22 23
60%
60% of the area had good number of people present 
on the streets during the time of the audit, while 28% 
had less than 10 people after dark and 12% were quite 
empty. When this data is represented geographically 
(map below) it is seen that areas with lower ratings on 
people are spread across the mapped area at various 
locations. The western most corridor by the sea is 
particularly deserted in the north. This means, either 
there were no or few people in these parts during the 
mapping. This data could be supplemented with other 
data sets to understand why these parts are underused.
12%
28%
44%
16%
OF THE AREA MAPPED HAS 
GOOD PRESENCE OF PEOPLE 
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the parameter map below. 
Tally with the legend below.
20%
Only 20% of the area had women and children present in 
public spaces during the time of the audit, rest 80% had 
either no or very few women and children present on 
the streets. When this data is represented geographically 
(map below) it is seen that areas with lower ratings on 
gender usage are evenly present across the entire area 
barring few locations. This means, that there were no 
women and children present at night on most of the 
streets in the mapped area. This data too could be 
supplemented with other data sets to understand why 
streets are underused by women and children.
54%
26%
12%
8%
OF THE AREA MAPPED HAS 
PRESENCE OF WOMEN
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the parameter map below. 
Tally with the legend below.

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
24 25
-15 00
-10 00
-50 0
0
5 00
1 00 0
1 50 0
Lighting Walkpa th Pu blic Transport Visibi lity
Tondiarpet: Pin Distribution Graph
P oo r Below  Aver age Average G oo d
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Lighting Walkpath P ub lic Tran s po rt Visibility
Tondiarpet: Average Parameter Graph
The graph shows parameter wise pin 
distribution on a scale of three.
Graph bottom left
PIN DISTRIBUTION
The graph shows average rating for each 
parameter on a scale of three.
Graph  top left
PARAMETER RATING
To further analyse, the parameters on which physical interventions are possible 
are put together and the data is compared. The average parameter rating graph 
indicates the average rating for each parameter on a scale of three. Each of the 
four parameters are rated either 0,1, 2 or 3, where 0 is poor and 3 is good. As 
seen on the graph, the Public Transport parameter has been rated the highest, 
followed by other parameters such as Lighting and Visibility which are rated little 
lower. Walkpath has been rated the lowest. The parameter wise pin distribution 
graph indicates the number of points rated as 0, 1, 2 and 3. The good ratings 
are taken as positive and poor ratings as negative. As shown on the graph, for 
Walkpath more than half audit points are rated below average or poor. Whereas, 
for Public Transport and Visibility most audit points are rated good or average. 
Further, since public transport has the highest number of good ratings its average 
rating is the highest, followed by lighting, visibility and walkpath, in that order.
GRAPHIC INTERPRETATION OF KEY PARAMETERS
1% 7%
11%
19%
62%
3.8/5
Based on the collected data, a safety score of 3.8 on a 
scale of 5 is given to Tondiarpet which evaluates its status 
as 'above average' on safety and accessibility. The safety 
score map below shows some areas across Tondiarpet 
with poor physical infrastructure and poor usage of 
public space. This means that the condition of street-
lighting, footpath, visibility and public transport needs 
improvement at these locations and would together 
contribute to make Tondiarpet safe and accessible 
for women and others. A thorough analysis follows to 
understand which of the parameters must be prioritised 
to improve the overall safety status of the mapped area.
SAFETY SCORE OF TONDIARPET
On the left, percentage distribution pie of the safety score map below. 
Tally with the legend below.

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
2726
To map accessibility in public spaces of Tondiarpet, 
especially for women users, Safetipin Nite application 
was used to map the entire area twice - once in the 
day and once again in the night. An additional set 
of accessibility parameters apart from the standard 
safety parameters mentioned in the previous chapter 
were applied for better understanding of the status of 
accessibility in the area, especially for the vulnerable 
groups. Day time images revealed the actual condition 
and usage of the footpaths when in maximum use 
during the working hours. Night time images revealed 
the street lighting condition clearly in the evening 
hours apart from footpath condition and usage. Both 
sets of day and night images were then put together 
to analyse the ease of accessing the footpaths in the 
area, considering walking as a primary way of access.
To map this, two sets of factors were considered to 
assess ease of walking on footpaths. First - to map the 
present condition of the footpaths. Second - to see if 
the footpaths are clear of any barriers or not. Based 
on this, the accessibility parameters considered are as 
given below. Composite maps are generated for each 
parameter with geo-tagged information which helps to 
assess the nature of the issues related to accessibility 
and locate the same for physical intervention at site.
Accessibility parameters used for mapping:
Footpath Conditions:
Non-existent footpath
Broken, unpaved, dis-continuous footpath 
Availability of curb ramps, median breaks and zebra crossings
Footpath Barriers:
Garbage, construction debris/material dumped on footpaths
Vehicles parked on footpaths
House and shop extensions onto footpaths
Temporary stalls and vendors obstructing footpaths
Light, electric, signage and advert poles obstructing footpath
Everyone is a pedestrian. Walking is a basic and 
common mode of transport in all societies across 
the world. Virtually, every trip begins and ends with 
walking. Walking comprises the sole means of travel 
on some journeys, whether a long trip or running 
an errand. Therefore, footpaths are a fundamental 
form of urban infrastructure that facilitate walking, 
socializing and interacting with the public domain. 
In order to have a safe, barrier-free and successful 
trip, the street systems must be accessible to all 
pedestrians and especially to vulnerable users - 
women, children, elderly and people with disabilities 
using mobility devices such as wheelchairs and 
walkers, those who have vision, speech, hearing 
impairments or those with intellectual disabilities. 
The ease with which pedestrians can access and use 
streets influences their everyday life choices. A good 
street design which enables the user to seamlessly 
complete a trip from doorstep of origin to the 
doorstep of the destination is critical. 
In the absence of accessible footpaths, pedestrians 
are forced to share the street with motorists which 
enhances the chances of pedestrian injuries, 
disablement and fatalities. Absence or poor condition 
of footpaths also drastically restrict access to public 
spaces, services and amenities especially for women. 
It has a direct impact on their mobility patterns. It 
influences their ability to move around, connect to 
wider transport networks and access the opportunities 
present in the city. Therefore, footpaths impact the 
quality of their daily life and even their life choices.
Because streets are an important component of public 
space, designing them with people in mind is the key. 
Therefore, it is important to go beyond just having a 
footpath, it means that careful attention must be given 
to providing a comfortable, safe, engaging experience 
to all users of the street.
ACCESS FOR ALL ACCESSIBILITY MAPPING OF TONDIARPET
FINDINGS
Accessibility maps and associated findings
 
ACCESSIBILITY MAPPING
FINDINGS
The image shows correctly designed, located 
and executed pedestrian crossings.
Image on left
ZEBRA CROSSING
The image shows correctly designed, located 
and executed curb ramps.
Image on left
CURB RAMPS
The image shows correctly designed, located 
and executed median breaks.
Image on left
MEDIAN BREAK

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
28 29
Safetipin identified three types of footpath conditions which mar pedestrian walking experience and 
cause distress among pedestrians while navigating the streets, especially the vulnerable users. These 
conditions are namely, one, having no dedicated walking space on the streets, two, having no built 
footpath, and three, having broken, partly unpaved, discontinuous walking surface on footpaths. We 
mapped all of the above conditions wherever found in the area and geo-located the information on GIS 
layers. The composite map below represents all the non-functional footpaths as found on the streets and 
highlights the intensity of the issue in a large area in the middle of Tondiarpet.
MAPPING OF FOOTPATH CONDITIONS
The geo-tagged photos show 
non-functional footpaths
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES
Safetipin identified three types of physical elements which assist pedestrians to have at grade walking 
experience, especially the vulnerable users. These are namely curb ramps, median breaks and zebra 
crossings. We mapped all of the above wherever found in the area and geo-located the information on 
GIS layers. The composite map below represents all the accessibility elements found on the streets and 
highlights the intensity of the issue of having inadequate curb ramps, median cuts and pedestrian ramps 
for a seamless, at grade walking experience. One pedestrian underpass and two foot-over bridges were 
located. Zebra crossings were found only on few locations and mainly on a north-south arterial road. 
MAPPING OF ACCESSIBILITY ELEMENTS
The geo-tagged photos show 
accessibility elements on streets
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
30 31
Safetipin identified five types of physical barriers disrupting clear walking space for pedestrians, especially 
the vulnerable users. These are namely parked vehicles, shop/house extensions, temporary stalls/
vendors, electricity/signage poles, and lastly dumped garbage/construction material. We mapped all of 
the above when found on footpaths and geo-located the information on GIS layers. The composite map 
below represents all barriers types found on footpaths and highlights the intensity of the issue. The total 
number of locations where these obstructions are found are indicated in the legend.
MAPPING OF FOOTPATH OBSTRUCTIONS
The geo-tagged photos show 
obstructions on footpaths
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES
Safetipin identified 544 locations within Tondiarpet where vehicles are parked on footpaths, disrupting 
clear walking space for pedestrians, especially the vulnerable users. These are mainly two wheelers, four 
wheelers, small delivery vehicles, auto rickshaws, carts and cycles. We mapped these when found parked 
on footpaths and geo-located the information on GIS layers. The composite map below represents all 
locations with parked vehicles and highlights the intensity of the issue. It is found that majority of the 
footpaths were either occupied by obstructions or did not have a good, at grade, walking surface. 
MAPPING OF FOOTPATH OBSTRUCTIONS - PARKING
The geo-tagged photos show 
parked vehicles on footpaths
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
32
ANALYSIS
Data representation and correlation maps
 
DATA ANALYSIS
To further analyse the data layers generated by Safetipin and to gain a deeper understanding of the 
spatial issues related to safety and accessibility, some data layers were overlaid onto other data layers. 
This helped in understanding their relationship with each other and how they interacted with space. 
Such understanding could be applied to inform decision making for spatial interventions. The following 
correlation maps explore this understanding at a spatial level. Safetipin also looked at representation of 
data layers by grouping and segregating them. For example the Safety Score map below illustrates Safety 
Score at each ward level and can be used by the development authorities to prioritise on the wards 
which appear light green on the map and have scored above average on safety and accessibility. 
A set of recommendations on the actionable parameters for immediate improvement which will 
positively impact the wards' safety scores is included in the next chapter. 
  Ward-wise Safety Score map below showing good and above average safety score in various wards. 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
 Walkpath  Visibility  Pu bli c Transp ort  Gender  People
Comparative Analysis: Average Parameter Rating
Ni gh t Day
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Lighting
Walkpath
Visibility
Public Transport
Security
People
Gender Usage
Openness
The graph below indicates the correlation drawn between each of the eight parameters with respect to 
feeling, the ninth parameter. In case of Tondiarpet, user generated 'My Safetipin' audits show Visibility, 
Gender Usage and Public Transport to be rated the highest when correlated with feeling. This clearly 
shows the strong relationship of these parameters to women's perception of safety. Lighting and Security 
have been rated high as well. Walkpath however has been rated lower. The reason for this could be 
being used to walking on shared streets with transport and others activities happening on streets in an 
organically grown area like Tondiarpet. This analysis helps in identifying the key actionable parameters on 
which physical intervention is possible.
KEY PARAMETERS IMPACTING SAFETY PERCEPTIONS
The graph shows average rating of key  
parameters for day and night audits
Graph on right
COMPARATIVE RATING
The graph shows every  parameter correlation 
with the Feeling parameter. 
Graph on right
CORRELATION GRAPH
COMPARING DAY AND NIGHT AUDITS
Day and night audits generated using Safetipin Nite were compared for five parameters - Walkpath, 
Visibility, Public Transport, Gender and People. Lighting was not considered as street lights are not 
operational in the day. It is seen that Walkpath and Visibility drops at night along with Gender and People 
but Public Transport is slightly over day ratings. It is not very clear why public transport ratings are higher.

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
34 35
Safetipin overlaid 'presence of gender in public spaces' data on 'walkpath' data, generated by Safetipin's 
visual mapping analysis. This is done to geographically locate the areas where women and others are 
seen using walkpaths with various obstructions. The heat map below clearly illustrates this correlation. 
The dark purple areas are where walkpath is good and the light pink areas are where walkpath is non-
existent or of poor quality. The blue dots are the audit points showing presence of gender. There are all 
together 142 audit points identified in Tondiarpet where women can be seen accessing the streets where 
the walkpath condition is poor. The diagram below represents this data quantitatively. Each geo-tagged 
audit point is supported by two or more images. Such photographic evidence could be used for deeper 
investigation into the area's walking infrastructure and improve accessibility in public spaces. A good 
walking environment will improve women's mobility and access to resources. 
CORRELATING GENDER USAGE WITH WALKPATH
The diagram represents correlation between 
gender usage and walkpath
Diagram on right
CORRELATION DIAGRAM
223311 audit 
points with 
high rating (2,3) 
where women 
are seen
772244 audit points 
with poor rating 
(0,1) having no or 
poor quality 
walkpaths
114422  audit points 
where women are 
seen using poor 
quality walkpaths
Safetipin overlaid 'presence of gender in public spaces' data on 'visibility' data, generated by Safetipin's 
visual mapping analysis. This is done to geographically locate the areas where women and others 
are seen using public spaces which have very low visibility. The heat map below clearly illustrates this 
correlation. The dark green areas are where visibility or 'eyes on the street' is good and the light green 
areas are where there is no visibility. The blue dots are the audit points showing presence of gender. 
There are all together 37 audit points identified in Tondiarpet where women can be seen accessing public 
spaces after dark with no eyes on the streets. The diagram below represents this data quantitatively. Each 
geo-tagged audit point is supported by two or more images. Such photographic evidence could be used 
for further analysis of the area's safety aspects. Active and watched over public places encourage and 
enable women's participation in city life and enhance women's perception of safety.
CORRELATING GENDER USAGE WITH VISIBILITY
The diagram represents correlation between 
gender usage and visibility
Diagram on right
CORRELATION DIAGRAM
223311 audit 
points with 
high rating (2,3) 
where women 
are seen
339944 audit points 
with poor rating 
(0,1) on visibility, i.e., 
very few active 
frontages (windows, 
entrances, shops) 
overlooking streets 3377  audit points 
where women are 
present on the streets
but visibility is very 
low, making the streets 
unsafe

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
36 37
Safetipin overlaid public transport data on a GIS layer of public places (markets, transport hubs, schools, 
colleges, hostels) received from the city authorities. This helped in geographically locating the areas 
around public places where public transport stands/stops are available or unavailable. The heat map 
below clearly illustrates this correlation. The dark green areas are where transport stands are within 
reach and the light yellow areas are where they are out of reach. This GIS layer is provided as a CSV file 
and could be integrated with the city's existing GIS platform for an up-gradation program to make public 
transport available within 2-5 mins of walking distance from the schools which fall in the light yellow zone.
CORRELATING PUBLIC TRANSPORT WITH PUBLIC SPACES
The geo-tagged photos show 
public transport stands/stops.
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES
Safetipin overlaid 'presence of gender in public spaces' data on 'street lighting' data, generated by 
Safetipin's visual mapping analysis. This is done to geographically locate the areas where women and 
others are seen using public spaces which have very low street lighting. The heat map below clearly 
illustrates this correlation. The dark brown areas are where street lighting is good and the light yellow 
areas are where street lighting is non-functional or inadequate. The blue dots are the audit points 
showing presence of gender. There are all together 16 audit points identified in Tondiarpet where women 
can be seen accessing public spaces in the dark. The diagram below represents this data quantitatively. 
Each geo-tagged audit point is supported by two or more images. Such photographic evidence could 
be used for deeper investigation into the area's street lighting infrastructure and improve safe access to 
public spaces. Women's access to public spaces would certainly improve if street lighting is prioritise.
CORRELATING GENDER USAGE WITH STREET LIGHTING
The diagram represents correlation between 
gender usage and street lighting
Diagram on right
CORRELATION DIAGRAM
9999 audit points 
with poor 
rating (0,1) 
where lighting 
is inadequate 
223311 audit points 
with high rating (2,3) 
where women are 
seen on the streets 
after dark 1166  audit points 
where women are 
present in public 
spaces but street 
lighting is either poor 
or inadequate

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
38 39
Proposed Safety Pole locations were shared with Safetipin by the project team at World Bank. We 
overlaid the locations on the Safety Score heat map to see if they are positioned over areas with good or 
poor safety score. The map below illustrates this relationship. 
While the safety pole program has been put on hold by the authorities, the analysis provides an 
opportunity to better understand where such intervention could be most effective.
CORRELATING SAFETY SCORE WITH SAFETY POLES
Safety Score and Safety Pole 
We also overlaid the safety pole locations on 'presence of gender in public spaces' parameter to see if 
they are positioned over areas where high presence of gender were found during mapping. The map 
below illustrates this relationship.
While the safety pole program has been put on hold by the authorities, the analysis provides an 
opportunity to better understand where such intervention could be most effective.
CORRELATING GENDER USAGE WITH SAFETY POLES
Gender Usage and Safety Pole

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
4140
RECOMMENDATION
Action points and planned interventions
RECOMMENDATIONS
Analysed data shows,
• 65% of Tondiarpet, has no or poor quality footpath
• 15% of Tondiarpet has distant or unavailable transport stops/  
stands within 5-10 minutes of walking distance
• 35% of Tondiarpet has no or poor visibility 
• 40% of Tondiarpet has deserted public spaces
Women and children using public space in the evening (6-9pm) 
20% of Tondiarpet, have presence of women & children in streets
Safetipin's mapping in other cities like Delhi, Gurgaon, 
Gwalior have yielded positive results in identifying and 
improving certain parameters for enhancing safety and 
accessibility in public spaces. 
In Delhi in 2014, after the first round of mapping, 7438 
darkspots were identified in the city. The authorities made 
dedicated efforts in making the city well lit at night to 
improve safety and usage of public space. In 2018, another 
round of audits were done to map the city's improved 
condition and to identify more dark spots. 
Similarly, in Gurgaon in 2016, mapping was done to improve 
the quality of street lighting in order to make people feel 
safer on the streets after dark. The Gurgaon Municipal 
Corporation had asked to identify places where people were 
seen at night and where street lighting was inadequate. 
630 nos. of such spots were located in the city where street 
lighting was improved for better visibility and safety at night.
In Gwalior in 2019, after Safetipin's mapping of the city, 
Gwalior Smart City launched ‘Gwalior One City One App’ to 
provide its citizens information on administrative as well as 
infrastructural status of the city. One section of the app was 
developed and named ‘Veerangana’ (meaning brave woman) 
that allows users to conduct safety reviews. This review is 
similar to Safetipin app’s Safety Audit wherein one has to rate 
physical and social infrastructure of a place on the basis of 
its condition and status.
Walkable cities have places that are easily and safely 
navigable on foot. Walking has the capacity to promote 
equality and reduce social exclusion. As a free means of 
transport, walking can provide access to a range of resources 
and opportunities. Persons with disabilities (people 
walking with walking aid), people assisting others (pushing 
wheelchairs and prams) and people having reduced walking 
speed (children and elderly) - must have equal access to the 
walking facility. This implies that people on foot are given 
consideration first in street design by keeping the city’s most 
vulnerable user in mind. This is the core principle of universal 
access: every street must be accessible by people of any age 
and ability.
Tondiarpet has a great potential to become a pedestrian 
priority area with good local level pedestrian connections by 
improving the quality of footpaths, walking environments and 
links to access public transport.
As discussed before, the analysed data highlights the state 
of physical infrastructure and social participation in public 
space. Hence, in order to make streets and public spaces 
more safe and accessible, the following parameters need 
immediate attention. Condition of street lighting, quality of 
footpath and access to public transport, are the physical 
infrastructure parameters and visibility, is the social usage 
parameter which need improvement. Specific maps for 
each parameter with data points having lower ratings 
are given below. Analysed maps are also included with 
specific recommendations on wards, bus stops, markets 
and educational institutions. A detailed recommendation 
on walkability is given as well which looks at immediate 
upgradation of the walking environment of Tondiarpet. 
KEY ACTION: MAKE PUBLIC SPACES WALKABLE LEARNING FROM OTHER CITIES
The image shows before and after photos of a 
stretch of road where lighting was improved
Image on left
GURGAON AUDIT
The image shows dark spot mapping  
of the city of Delhi
Image on left
DELHI AUDIT
The image shows Smart City Gwalior app with 
Safety Review feature
Image on left
GWALIOR AUDIT

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
42 43
65% of the area is either without any footpath or has very poor footpath condition. Broken, discontinuous 
and blocked footpaths could be easily fixed to achieve ease of walking in the area which is important 
for pedestrians, especially women to feel safe while accessing the area for various daily activities. 
Safetipin's data (geo-located images) can be used to improve pedestrian access in Tondiarpet. The map 
below represents the locations where there are no dedicated walkpaths, no constructed footpaths 
and footpaths with obstructions. This information can be used for footpath up-gradation such as, 
construction, repair and removal of obstructions. More detailed recommendations on footpaths follows.
1. IMPROVE FOOTPATH CONDITION TO ENHANCE WALKABILITY
The geo-tagged photos show 
very narrow footpath.
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES
35% of the area has either not any or poor visibility which means people present on the streets cannot 
be seen by other people living by or working on the streets - the concept of 'eyes on the streets'. 
Safetipin's data (geo-located images) can be used to improve 'eyes on the streets' - the key component 
in making cities safe and accessible. The map below represents the locations where visibility is low. This 
information could be used for enhancement of visibility by replacing opaque, high, boundary walls with 
fences, adding lights to transport stops, foot-overs, underpasses and allowing/organising street hawking. 
If public spaces are active it positively impacts women's perception of safety in the city.
2. MAKE STREETS VISIBLE OR ADD MORE 'EYES ON THE STREETS' TO THEM SAFER
The geo-tagged photos show 
good visibility.
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
44 45
Only 15% of the area has either distant or out of reach public transport. Adding more public transport 
stops/stands will improve access for all. Safe and reliable public transport is the critical link between 
women's access to education, employment and resources in the city. Safetipin's data (geo-located 
images) can be used to improve access to public transport Tondiarpet. The map below represents the 
locations where there are either no public transport stops available or the stops are distant (beyond 10 
minutes walking distance). This information can be used for planning transport linkages such as, adding 
more bus stops, auto/rickhaw stands within 2-5 minutes walking distance on the identified locations. 
3. MAKE PUBLIC TRANSPORT ACCESSIBLE TO ENHANCE REACH TO OPPORTUNITIES
The geo-tagged photos show 
public transport stands.
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES
Only 09% of the area has inadequate street lighting and could be fixed immediately to achieve 100% 
street lighting in Tondiarpet. Street lighting is crucial for ensuring safe accessibility in public spaces and 
plays a vital role in people's, particularly women's perception of safety in streets and public places after 
dark. Safetipin's data (geo-located images) can be used to improve street lighting in the city. The map 
below represents the locations where there are either absolutely no lights, inadequate lights or non-
functional street lights. This information can be used for the ease of planning for immediate up-gradation 
like, adding and fixing street lights in order to improve women's access to public spaces.
4. MAKE STREET LIGHTING FULLY FUNCTIONAL TO IMPROVE SAFETY AND ACCESS
The geo-tagged photos show 
low street lighting.
Left to right
GEO-LOCATED IMAGES

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
46 47
PARAMETER AUDIT POINTS RECOMMENDATIONS
Total audit points 
with poor rating
Among the four actionable parameters, Lighting is adequate in the wards with 'above average' rating but 
Walkpath, Visibility & Public Transport need attention to improve overall safety and accessibility in the area.
Walkpath 968 Footpath is inaccessible in most wards because of poor walking condition and unavailibility of clear walking 
space. Removing footpath blockages and having safe walking surfaces will improve accessibility in this area.
Visibility 511
Not many windows and entrances of shops or residences overlook the streets at some locations in these 
wards. Presence of high boundary walls, isolating the streets is another reason for low visibility. Organising 
street vendors/informal shopping and street parking will improve visibility in these wards. Lowering opapue 
boundary walls will also improve visibility.
Public Transport 212
Metro stations, bus stops or auto/rickshaw stands could not be reached within 5-10 minutes of walking 
distance at few locations in these wards. Adding public transport stands/stops within 2-5 minutes of walking 
distance will enhance access to public transport and improve overall accessibility in the area.
Data generated by Safetipin's visual mapping was segregated for bus stop locations. The map below 
shows 92 bus stop locations in Tondiarpet with their safety ratings. 4 locations were found to be below 
average mainly due to non availability of walkpath and very poor visibility conditions. During the time of 
mapping the locations were found to be deserted or had very few people present in them. No women 
were seen in these locations either during mapping. A set of recommendations are given below for better 
access and safety for these bus stops.
1. Dedicated, unobstructed, paved pedestrian walkpaths must be provided to give people easy and safe 
access to bus stops (see Walkpath recommendations below).
2. Universal accessibility standards must be met for bus stops to allow people with disability better 
access to and from the bus stops and while boarding/unboarding the bus.
3. Pedestrian crossings must be appropriately placed near bus stops for safe and easy access to/from 
stops.
4. Bus stops must be avoided at intersections and should be placed at least 30 meters away from 
them.
5. Bus stops must have areas allocated near them for first/last mile connectivity transport options. They 
also must provide cycle stands as a park and ride facility.
6. Whenever possible, bus stops should be located in an area where there is enough visibility either 
from adjacent buildings and/or from people using that area. Having better visibility enhances the 
perception of safety among women and other users.
6. IMPROVE SAFETY AND ACCESS AT BUS STOPS TO ENHANCE USAGE
Lighting, Walkpath, Public Transport and Visibility are the parameters which address some of the key 
issues of safety and accessibility. Conditions of Walkpath and Public Transport directly affects accessibility 
and mobility in the area, especially for women. Whereas, Lighting and Visibility affects actual safety as well 
as perception of safety on the streets by the availability of street lighting after dark and by the presence 
of ‘eyes on the streets.’ These parameters along with Gender Diversity have the strongest correlation 
with the overall safety score. If physical infrastructure parameters - Lighting, Walkpath, Public Transport 
and Visibility could be improved with strategic interventions at neighbourhood and city level - collectively 
these will have a positive impact on Gender Diversity which is a parameter which measures social usage 
of space. Improving these parameters will impact safety and accessibility in 17 wards of Tondiarpet 
(light green as seen on the map below) which have scored 'above average' on safety rating. These ward 
numbers are 5, 8, 10, 12, 13, 38, 40, 41, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 56, 57, 59 and 60. A set of recommendations 
on the actionable parameter are given below for these wards to improve their overall Safety Score.
5. IMPROVE FOOTPATH, VISIBILITY, PUBLIC TRANSPORT FOR WARDS WITH AVERAGE RATING 


--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
Kasimedu Fish Market
Tondiarpet Market
Periya Market
Tondiarpet Fish Market
Korukkupet Vegetable Market
48 49
Data generated by Safetipin's visual mapping was segregated for local markets. Among five local markets 
being audited by both applications, three markets were found to have lower safety ratings on Footpaths, 
Visibility and Public Transport. The map below shows these market locations in Tondiarpet with their 
safety rating points within 100m and 500m radius. The ratings on the mentioned parameters were poor, 
below average and average at various audit points mainly due to poor walkpath quality, poor visibility 
conditions and weak access to public transport. During the time of mapping the locations were found to 
have very few women and children present in them. Mostly men were seen in these locations during the 
assessment. A set of recommendations are given below for better access and safety for these markets.
1. Dedicated, unobstructed, paved pedestrian walkpaths must be provided to give people easy and safe 
walking environment within and around local markets (see Walkpath recommendations below).
2. Universal accessibility standards must be met for walkpaths to allow people with disability better 
access within and around local markets (see Walkpath recommendations below).
3. Market places should have a parking strategy in place to organise and manage vehicular traffic.
4. Markets should have amenities such as public toilets, police assistance booths and resting areas.
5. Public transport stops must be with 2-5 mins reach and must have areas allocated near them for 
first/last mile connectivity transport options. 
6. Areas around markets must have good visibility either from adjacent buildings and/or from people 
using that area. Having better visibility enhances the perception of safety among women and other 
users. Reducing boundary wall heights, front setbacks of plots and encouraging 'active frontage' for 
better visual connection between the built edge and the pedestrian on the street are some useful 
strategies to incorporate in order to enhance safety.
7. MAKE LOCAL MARKETS PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
Kasimedu Fish Market
Tondiarpet Market
Periya Market
The map below show the areas within 500m radius of all the five local markets which were audited by Safetipin applications.

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
St Annes Girls' 
Higher Secondary School
Bharati
Women's College
KC Sankaralinga Nadar Higher 
Secondary School
Kanniyaga Parameswari 
Women's College
St Joseph Nursery & Primary School
50 51
Data generated by Safetipin's visual mapping was segregated for educational institutions and facilities 
- schools, colleges and hostels. Among five such places being audited by both applications, two were 
found to have lower safety ratings on Footpaths, Visibility and Public Transport. The map below shows 
one school and one college location in Tondiarpet with their safety rating points within 100m and 500m 
radius. The ratings on the mentioned parameters were poor, below average and average at various audit 
points mainly due to poor walkpath quality, poor visibility conditions and weak access to public transport. 
A set of recommendations are given below for better access and safety for these markets.
1. Dedicated, unobstructed, paved pedestrian walkpaths must be provided to give people easy and safe 
walking environment within and around local markets (see Walkpath recommendations below).
2. Universal accessibility standards must be met for walkpaths to allow people with disability better 
access within and around local markets (see Walkpath recommendations below).
3. Public transport stops must be with 2-5 mins reach and must have areas allocated near them for 
first/last mile connectivity transport options. They also must provide cycle stands as a park and ride 
facility as a inexpensive and sustainable mode of transport for young people.
4. Areas around schools and colleges must have good visibility either from adjacent buildings and/or 
from people using that area. Having better visibility enhances the perception of safety among women 
and other users. Reducing boundary wall heights, front setbacks of plots and encouraging 'active 
frontage' for better visual connection between the built edge and the pedestrian on the street are 
some useful strategies to incorporate in order to enhance safety.
8. IMPROVE SAFETY AND ACCESS AROUND EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
St Annes Girls' 
Higher Secondary School
Kanniyaga Parameswari 
Women's College
The map below show the areas within 500m radius of all the five educational institutions which were audited by Safetipin applications.

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
52 53
FINDINGS RECOMMENDATIONS
 REMOVE obstructions out of the footpaths to provide clear walking space
OBSTRUCTIONS PRESENT ON THE FOOTPATHS Images of types of obstructions present on the footpaths can be seen on Page 00
SShhoopp  eennccrrooaacchhmmeennttss  //  hhoouussee  eexxtteennssiioonnss  ((9922))
Remove shop and/or house extensions blocking the existing footpaths to provide clear walking space (min 
1.8m). Some spill over from shops could be allowed on the footpaths in the 'active frontage zone' (refer 
illustration below) depending on available space on the existing footpaths.
TTeemmppoorraarryy  sshhooppss  //  vveennddoorrss  ((220088))
Remove temporary shops and vendors occupying and blocking the existing footpaths to provide clear 
walking space (min 1.8m) and organise them on the carriageway side, in the multiutility zone (refer 
illustration below) part of the footpaths, wherever the footpath width is more than 1.8m - the minimum width 
required for two people to move. 
Vendors provide 'eyes on the street' and promote activity on the streets, together which make streets 
safer. Hence keeping vendors on streets is a mutually beneficial strategy and allocating space for them 
either on the footpaths or along the footpaths is crucial. 
EElleeccttrriicciittyy,,  ssiiggnnaaggee  aanndd  ssiiggnnaall  ppoolleess  ((113355))
Remove electricity, signage and signal poles out of the existing footpaths to provide clear walking space 
(min 1.8m) and arrange/align them on the carriageway side, in the multiutility zone (refer illustration below) 
part of the footpath, wherever the footpath width is more than 1.8m. 
TTeelleepphhoonnee  //  ccoommmmuunniiccaattiioonn  bbooxxeess  //  ppoowweerr  ttrraannssffoorrmmeerrss
Remove telephone/communication boxes and power transformers out of the existing footpaths to provide 
clear walking space (min 1.8m) and arrange/align them on the carriageway side, in the multiutility zone 
(refer illustration below) part of the footpaths, wherever the footpath width is more than 1.8m. 
GGaarrbbaaggee  dduummppss  aanndd  ccoonnssttrruuccttiioonn  ddeebbrriiss  ((9933))
Remove garbage dumps and construction debris from the existing footpaths to provide clear walking space 
(min 1.8m). Plan and organise garbage collection points on the street at various locations to avoid spilling 
of garbage on the footpaths causing serious hazard and health issues. 
CCoonnssttrruuccttiioonn  mmaatteerriiaall  bblloocckkiinngg  tthhee  ffoooottppaatthh  ((116677))
Remove construction materials piled on and blocking the existing footpaths to provide clear walking space 
(min 1.8m). Allocate some space on every street for storing of construction material for all ongoing 
construction, repair or maintenance work. 
VVeehhiiccllee  ((ttwwoo,,  ffoouurr  wwhheeeelleerrss,,  ccyyccllee  rriicckksshhaawwss))  ppaarrkkeedd  ((554444))
Remove two & four wheelers, autos, cycles and cycle rickshaws parked on existing footpaths to provide 
clear walking space (min 1.8m). Organise parking for two, four wheelers, autos, cycles and cycle 
rickshaws on shared lane (parking and driving) of the carriageway. Refer illustration below. 
REPAIR broken footpath and add accessibility elements
ACCESSIBILITY IMPEDEMENTS OF THE FOOTPATH Images of types of footpath accessibility elements can be seen on Page 00
NNoonn  aavvaaiillaabbiilliittyy  ooff  CCuurrbb  RRaammppss
Curb ramps are an essential component of footpaths for improving accessibility for all and could be only 
found in few locations in Tondiarpet. Add curb ramps to negotiate all level drops and make it step-free to 
reduce hazards for the vulnerable groups. Refer illustrations on Page 27. 
NNoonn  aavvaaiillaabbiilliittyy  ooff  ZZeebbrraa  CCrroossssiinnggss
Zebra crossings are vital elements of street design to ensure safe pedestrian crossover for all. Many 
street intersections as well as crossover points in Tondiarpet did not have zebra crossings. Add zebra 
crossings to all street intersections/crossovers for safe pedestrian access. Refer illustrations on Page 27. 
NNoonn  aavvaaiillaabbiilliittyy  ooff  MMeeddiiaann  BBrreeaakkss
Median breaks facilitate at grade street crossovers for pedestrians and are a crucial component for 
improving accessibility for all. There was no median break available at the intersections. Add median 
breaks to facilitate at grade crossover for all vulnerable groups. Refer illustrations on Page 27. 
HHeeiigghhtt  ooff  tthhee  ffoooottppaatthh Footpath height should be not more than one step (150 mm) high as per international street design 
standards. Reduce overall footpath height to ensure easy, hazard-free, pedestrian access. 
SSuurrffaaccee  ooff  tthhee  ffoooottppaatthh
Pedestrian, especially vulnerable groups need at grade walking surfaces. Footpath surfaces with missing, 
broken, dis-jointed paver blocks, manhole cover protruding out, other fixed objects pose as hazards for 
pedestrians. Ensure at grade, hazard-free walking surface. 
PPeeddeessttrraaiinn  FFoooottoovveerr  BBrriiddggee  aanndd  PPeeddeessttrriiaann  UUnnddeerrppaassss
Pedestrians, especially vulnerable groups need at grade walking surfaces. Footover bridges without lifts 
are diificult to use by vulnerable groups. Women often carrying children and shopping bags find it diificult 
to climb up and down such facilities. Pedestrian underpasses have the same issues coupled with being 
very unsafe after dark. They are often deserted even when they are well lit at night. 
Investing in high qaulity, at grade walking surfaces with assessibility elemnets is far more beneficial than 
building expensive pedestrian footover bridges and underpasses in a dense neighbourhood like Tondiarpet.
RECLAIM vehicular lanes for footpath widening
INSUFFICIENT SPACE AVAILABLE FOR PEDESTRIANS Images of insufficient footpath space can be seen on Page 00
VVaarryyiinngg  ffoooottppaatthh  wwiiddtthhss
Putting pedestrian over vehicle would ensure safe accessibility for all in Tondiarpet. Currently the streets 
function as shared streets with slower vehicular speed, as people and a range of daily activities occupy 
the streets. Yet, only able bodied adults are able to navigate these streets and that too with great 
difficulty. It is even more challenging for vulnerable groups to negotiate the uncertainties encountered 
frequently on these streets. Hence, providing dedicated footpaths, with clear walking space for 
pedestrians, on both sides of the streets must be strategized. This could be done by reclaiming parts of 
the vehicular lanes wherever possible to widen the existing footpaths which do not have adequate clear 
width for walking. It is important to provide minimum 1.8 meter footpath width for clear pedestrian access - 
the minimum width required for two people to move or pass each other. Another minimum footpath width of 
1.2 meter is needed for multi-utility space to accommodate street utility, vendors and street furniture. Any 
extra space available after allocating the above two, could be added to ‘active frontage’ – the space 
outside the built edge. For illustration, refer typical street section on page 50. 
Google Map Link and CSV Files Please use the map links and the csv files shared in the project to view the collected data supported with 
images where obstructions, incorrect assessibility elements and insufficient width are present. 
Walkpath is the only parameter which fared very poorly on the Safetipin visual analysis. This section 
includes some strategies which could address the current issues of the walkpath and make it safe, 
accessible and usable for all. 
STRATEGY: REMOVE - REPAIR - RECLAIM 
A three tiered action plan of remove, repair and reclaim could be adopted to improve access for all, 
especially the vulnerable groups - women, children, elderly and people with disability. The table given 
includes recommendations against each findings to incorporate these strategies. An illustration of a 
typical street section is given below to explain how the footpaths could be organised for safe access and 
better utility. 
Footpaths have three main components:
Multi-utility Zone – Minimum 1.2 meter footpath width is required as multi-utility space for street utility, 
vendors and street furniture.
Pedestrian Walkway - Minimum 1.8 meter footpath width is needed for clear pedestrian access - the 
minimum width required for two people to move or pass each other.
Active Frontage – The area outside shops and houses where spill outs, display windows, entrances, 
verandas, bay windows, etc. are present. The width could vary depending on space available after 
allocating space for pedestrians and utilities.
9. IMPROVE WALKABILITY BY ADOPTING INTERVENTION STRATEGIES 
A typical section of an organised  footpath
Image on right
TYPICAL STREET SECTION

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
54 55
RECOMMENDATION
Planned interventions
URBAN DESIGN 
STRATEGIES
Unlike action points which are pragmatic in nature, long term public 
space intervention strategies look at the city holistically. These 
strategies serve the purpose of helping cities function better and 
more effectively. They make the connection between aspects that are 
linked but not so visible, such as the link between improved physical 
access and opportunities for a better life for women and others. 
Below are a few design principles as recommendations which would 
help Tondiarpet in achieving the overarching goal of 'safe access and 
participation in public life for women and others.' 
To make walking easy, safe and seamless walking routes must be in good condition and 
connected to a larger network of streets in the city. A good walking route must be well paved, well 
lit and free from any type of obstruction. Additionally all walking routes must be well connected 
to other routes and well designed with crossovers to have a seamless walking experience when 
travelling from point A to point B. This particularly benefits vulnerable users.
1. MAKE WALKING SEAMLESS
Footpaths, curb ramps, crossings, footovers, underpasses
To make public transport within everyone's reach, various transportation systems functional in 
the city should be looked at. It is important to understand how one transport system interacts 
with the other and how people use them. Only then the gaps or overlaps between systems could 
be identified and improved to make them seamless. Such interventions to stitch different systems 
make the overall transport network accessible and allow people to switch within transport 
systems easily. Safety inside public transport is a very essential aspect to consider for women. 
2. MAKE PUBLIC TRANSPORT EASILY ACCESSIBLE
Transport stops, routes, frequency, capacity, safety within transport 
Last mile connectivity is an important aspect of any public transportation system operating in 
the city. Strengthening informal transport like non-motorised vehicles and light motor vehicles  
which serve as first/last mile connectivity to one's origin and destination could be an useful way of 
ensuring seamless and safe travelling. Often women forego opportunities available in the city due 
to weak, unsafe or expensive first/last mile connectivity options. 
3. FOCUS ON LAST MILE CONNECTIVITY
Non-motorised transport, light motor vehicles, informal transport
Active streets are safe streets. To make streets safe an optimum amount of activity on the streets 
and by the streets is required. Just the way over crowded streets tends to be unsafe, similarly 
under used streets are unsafe too. Streets which have enough people overlooking it from 
buildings next to it and have enough people present on it are safer. Encouraging mixed-used 
developments, on-street shopping, informal hawking and discouraging high, opaque boundary 
walls and front setback for buildings are good practices to make streets active round the clock. 
4. MAKE STREETS ACTIVE
Mixed-use development, informal shopping, eyes on the streets
Ensuring women are employed and represented in public services and government include their 
perspective in planning, designing and maintaining public space. Participatory planning methods 
are useful ways of including women and other disadvantaged group's perspective into planning. 
5. MAKE STREETS INCLUSIVE
Employment in public services, representation in govt, advocacy and sensitisation programs

--- PDF PAGE 29 ---
56 57
S No  ID  Latitude  Longitude  Lighting  Walkpath  Public 
Transport  Visibility  People  Gender 
Usage  Security  Openness  Feeling  Safety Score  Comment  Image Link_1  Image Link_2
1 741868 13.123944 80.2970964 2 0 1 2 1 0 1 2 1 2.6 as this market area so many males were there only very few females present.police/security  will be there from 2.00 a.m.to 11.00 a.m mentioned by one female many males were on the drunken mode.very few sellers were selling fish in the market local people were fighting in the areaspolice booth were there but no police presence  http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281652941.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281652941.png
2 741869 13.123531 80.2973861 2 0 1 2 2 1 0 2 1 3 in one zone after 100mts few females sellers were thereno police /security available lights available in each of the sellers top of the head females arguing and fighting each othervery less autos available inside the market enough visibility http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281656291.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281656291.png
3 741870 13.1241778 80.2968984 2 0 1 2 1 0 2 2 2 4  one zone after 100mts few male sellers were there and sitting together and discussing no police /security available but barricade was there lights available in each of the sellers top of the head very less autos available inside the market enough visibility http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281658811.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281658811.png
4 741871 13.1246292 80.2967513 1 0 1 3 2 0 1 3 1 3.5 only males open can move anywhere easilyno walk path males sitting and chit chattinghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281661401.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281661401.png
5 741873 13.1255618 80.2969185 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 0.9 no females present here to ask about the location more males predominant CCTV present no vehicles autos nearby need move / walk for 10minshttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281663871.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281663871.png
6 741874 13.124451 80.2969636 3 0 1 2 2 0 1 2 2 4.1 police barricade was there many.males only available many.lights were there areas open 3 space to runhttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281666251.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281666251.png
7 741875 13.1276151 80.297645 2 0 1 3 2 0 0 1 1 2.6 I was standing for few mins unnecessarily males coming and speaking with no reason all males only availablelights enoughsmall small vendors present ice cream moving vehicle 2 autos availabletea sellers were there http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281668581.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281668581.png
8 741876 13.1285925 80.2980634 3 0 1 2 1 0 0 3 2 4 autos availablemales.only therelights availableopen space in 3 areas no shops opened now but there is a vicinity http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281671931.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281671931.png
9 741877 13.1284335 80.2983728 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0.7 very few people no females at allmoving vendors and vehicle is there lights available sufficient area is interior and considering safety it's not as expected http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281673861.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281673861.png
10 741878 13.1284237 80.2979028 1 0 2 2 1 0 2 2 2 4 lighting pillars there but seems not workingmales crowdedwithin 2-3mins can walk to the main stop from the entrance of fish market police booth there saw a police who crossed in bike http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281677041.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281677041.png
11 741879 13.1284237 80.2979028 2 1 3 2 1 0 0 2 3 4.2 main area entrance of the kasimedu marketall daily available few females walking in the road auto stand was very near http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281678941.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281678941.png
12 741880 13.1180919 80.2931607 3 3 1 2 2 2 2 1 2 4.4 main road so lights available moremoving vehicles there continuous females were thereasked about the area with female they mentioned that safe area people will be always there when it's requiredsecurity was available in opposite sidestreet lights are enough http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281684561.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281684561.png
13 741881 13.1179075 80.2931089 2 1 2 3 1 1 1 1 2 4.1 pathway available but not continuous it was there for few and few damaged female availablefor shops houses vicinty is there moving autos there need to walk for main busstand http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281686921.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281686921.png
14 741882 13.1110994 80.2918932 1 2 2 3 2 2 3 3 3 4.6 police station was very near 100mts females were there school was mainly located in main roadchances of accidents for students is. more there is no speed breaker neaR school http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281691521.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281691521.png
15 741883 13.1104075 80.2919151 2 3 2 2 1 1 2 1 3 4.4 in the entrance gate of the school did the audit females available more kids not therevery near to the school speed breaker there it should be somewhat beyond the same vehicles available more http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281695171.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281695171.png
16 741884 13.1099609 80.2918048 3 3 2 3 1 2 1 2 2 4.4 no stationary shops available more as school is very nearmany snack shop there for female students it is safe as this is in main place mentioned by roadside Walker not very conjusted lanes parking in the entrance of school not available http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281698261.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281698261.png
17 741885 13.1094973 80.2917571 3 3 2 3 2 2 2 1 2 4.5 main road vehicle bus stop very near moving autos theregood lighting females more dominantopeness in 2 ways http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281699911.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281699911.png
18 741886 13.1095133 80.2917435 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 3 3 4.8 open in all zones vehicle auto stand very nearsafe in all waysfemale is getting fear to speak because of covid good lanes with neatly maintained  http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281701541.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281701541.png
19 741887 13.1097491 80.2917 3 3 2 2 1 2 1 1 2 4.3 females occupied equallyfairly diverselights bright bcz main roadpeople is safe all essentials available http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281703321.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281703321.png
20 741888 13.1080246 80.2915283 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 5 traffic police availableopennesslights in all directions diversefemale feedback is safest area but traffic will be more always in the s lane http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281705361.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281705361.png
21 741889 13.1086368 80.2883839 1 0 3 1 2 2 3 1 1 4.1 traffic police available main hospital areapark available good for entertainmentbust stop is in the exact place of audit female feels uncomfortable because no ligting facility there via only hospitals people can see http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281709761.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281709761.png
22 741890 13.1089603 80.2870464 1 0 3 2 2 1 3 3 2 4.3 police booth and many police were there patrol presentlighting less moving vehicles light is more very close metros and auto stand http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281711931.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281711931.png
23 741891 13.1094017 80.2854288 0 0 2 1 1 1 0 1 1 1.3 very less lights people too lessno police / security http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281715431.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281715431.png
24 741892 13.1093163 80.2853883 2 0 2 3 2 1 1 3 2 4.3 moving areas lighting good females presence there heavy traffichttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281725141.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281725141.png
25 741893 13.1257053 80.2878527 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0.3 not safetasmac bar was theremany malesunsafe place http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281727351.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281727351.png
26 741894 13.1257731 80.2879651 3 0 3 1 1 0 0 2 1 3 unsafeno people crowdedmany road work going onno pedestrian crossing available many take diversion available to reach this place extension of roads happeningfor any emergency or shops need to  Go about 5-10minshttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281730091.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281730091.png
27 741895 13.1235824 80.2878952 3 0 3 3 3 1 3 3 2 4.6 many police are thereauto stand availablefemales walking on the roadsmain part of area  http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281732341.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281732341.png
28 741896 13.12345 80.2876262 3 0 3 3 2 2 3 3 3 4.7 more people Availableareas too scatteredpolice available with patrolfemale feel safe http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281734241.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281734241.png
29 741897 13.1233942 80.2879999 2 0 2 2 3 0 2 2 1 4.1 in entrance of the metro tasmac bar was there more surrounded by malesdrunken was roaming can't wait for more than. 5minsfemale feels uncomfortable to stand auto stand active http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281736501.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281736501.png
30 741898 13.1232331 80.2885023 2 0 2 2 2 2 0 1 2 4.1 many shops opnedd people were roamingfew females there lighting available properly  http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281738121.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281738121.png
31 741899 13.1228651 80.2887649 3 0 1 2 2 1 0 2 2 4.1 http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281740761.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281740761.png
32 741900 13.1233423 80.2884864 1 0 1 2 2 2 0 2 2 4 females presence was there lighting is not that goodopeness is therein sanjeeverayan stteet it away near old people is not behaving with small kids in proper way mentioned by femalehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281744331.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281744331.png
33 741901 13.1228389 80.2897989 2 0 1 3 2 3 0 3 2 4.3 main Street of the roadsurrounded by many people morning people occupancy will be less evening will be more because here many were working all easily Available http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281746441.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281746441.png
34 741902 13.1230698 80.2893569 3 0 1 3 2 2 0 2 2 4.2 all in one place marketgoo prices in groceries moving vehicles there safe for females to walkhttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281747811.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281747811.png
35 741903 13.1228596 80.2901906 3 0 1 3 2 1 0 2 2 4.1 space for the road is less no proper parking available fairly diverse http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281748981.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281748981.png
36 741904 13.1227596 80.2909617 1 0 1 2 1 1 0 2 1 2 visibility is thereopenness is there if there is evening fish market then it will be good in this location http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281751251.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281751251.png
37 741905 13.1227404 80.2909663 2 0 3 3 2 2 0 2 2 4.3 entrance of the market four lanes opened females equally availablehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281753071.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281753071.png
38 741906 13.1230649 80.2890573 3 0 3 3 2 2 0 2 2 4.3 bus stop very near lights OK auto stand availablefamiliar places very near http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281754091.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281754091.png
39 741907 13.1227681 80.2913782 1 0 2 1 1 1 0 1 2 2.6 very few lightsfemales present moving vehicles therehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281755701.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281755701.png
40 741908 13.1229842 80.2893223 1 0 2 1 1 1 0 1 2 2.6 acceptable lights were lessfemale presence was lessroads will be traffic in day time http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281758241.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281758241.png
41 741909 13.1196154 80.2903986 1 0 3 2 1 1 0 2 2 4 lights was less auto stand available moving vehicles more femLes lesshttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281760921.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281760921.png
42 741910 13.1195903 80.2903981 3 0 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 4.8 all open place main bazaarlights are OKmany females kids availablehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281763181.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281763181.png
43 741911 13.1159433 80.2886644 3 0 2 2 1 3 0 1 2 4.1 http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281764051.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281764051.png
44 741912 13.1166174 80.2873133 1 0 2 1 1 1 0 1 1 1.6 females feels comfortable in walking roads all essential shops avaible very near to households streets are narrow no.propwr parking is available http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281767941.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281767941.png
45 741913 13.1169595 80.2857347 2 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1.6 narrow streets lights were in one place after that it wS less females waling in roads kids availability was not at all there http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281769441.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281769441.png
46 741914 13.1169694 80.2855112 3 3 3 2 2 2 0 2 2 4.4 walk path is there because of metro station to some extent people were available vehicles are in moving shops were opened bus stop and metro is very near http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281770931.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281770931.png
47 741915 13.1175677 80.284509 2 0 3 2 2 2 0 1 3 4.3 females are there in the road lights are not powerful but for each shop they have lightingvehicles moving around http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281772511.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281772511.png
48 741916 13.1175677 80.284509 3 0 3 3 2 2 1 3 3 4.6 park is on closed due to.covidbest place in the area is the park neatly maintained auto stand bus stop is in front of the park http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281774111.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281774111.png
49 741917 13.1176958 80.2845659 3 0 3 3 2 2 0 2 3 4.4 not bad things happened any of the timefemale own confidence is there in this area accidents is only happening http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281776151.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281776151.png
50 741918 13.1187599 80.2851749 3 3 3 3 3 1 2 2 3 4.8 side space with lines were there for walk pathfemale is there but kids are not at all therevehicles moving continuously http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281777741.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281777741.png
51 741919 13.1187599 80.2851749 2 0 3 1 2 1 3 1 2 4.2 http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281778921.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281778921.png
52 741920 13.1187195 80.2851255 1 0 3 2 2 1 3 2 3 4.4 police female was thereauto stand and bus and was there people were walking causallyhttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281779821.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281779821.png
53 741921 13.1185306 80.2850857 2 0 3 2 3 3 2 1 3 4.5 Females were moremain area of the roadlight were availablecrowd is there http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281781071.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281781071.png
54 741922 13.1180821 80.284801 1 0 3 1 2 0 0 1 2 3 very few lights available females was not at all there http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281782091.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281782091.png
55 741923 13.1175627 80.2845608 3 0 2 2 1 2 1 1 2 4.1 females present in the roadone lady told that it was safe and comfortable even if some one walk alone but accidents will happen more developments need to come in this area there is no improvement for more than 10years in this roadhttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281783771.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281783771.png
56 741924 13.116773 80.2839344 3 1 2 2 2 1 2 1 2 4.3 some space is there in the road side but not proper walk path females available very few http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281785061.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281785061.png
57 741925 13.1161138 80.2835727 2 0 2 3 2 2 1 3 2 4.3 http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281785841.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281785841.png
58 741926 13.1161138 80.2835727 2 0 2 2 2 1 0 2 2 4.1 all 4 places open can move anywhere bus stop is near females there police bench was there but no police http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016281786921.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116281786921.png
59 741940 13.1141252 80.2821959 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 4.3 female mentioned that more crowded area always full of vehicles no space to walk by everyone if walked in some extent t of road may get accident because no spacemarket area also near to main road as many jeweller y shop available so many securities were therehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283366031.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283366031.png
60 741941 13.1138863 80.2826295 2 1 2 3 2 2 1 2 2 4.3 many female sellers available so female mentioned that it is safe to visit this market all essentials easily available mentioned by femalehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283368211.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283368211.png
61 741942 13.11421 80.2828858 1 0 2 2 2 1 0 1 2 3.5 more famales sellers theremany seellersparking vehicle infornt of stores so no space to walk of its crowded mentioned by a female  http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283370131.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283370131.png
62 741943 13.1145547 80.282843 2 0 3 3 2 2 1 2 2 4.3 many shops open always.road can be extended it is opened for repair work but it was not done mentioned by female  http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283372211.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283372211.png
63 741944 13.114709 80.2827255 2 0 3 2 2 2 1 2 3 4.4 roads need to be repaired so that I people can walk without hesitant mentioned by female http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283374141.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283374141.png
64 741946 13.1144308 80.2831058 2 1 3 2 2 2 1 2 3 4.4 road is the major problem mentioned dby female  some waiting area can be helpful to relax from the crowd for sometime mentioned by femalehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283379491.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283379491.png
65 741947 13.1142906 80.2834085 2 0 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 4.2 no parking for market available mentioned by female.http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283381131.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283381131.png
66 741948 13.1141924 80.2830834 1 0 2 2 3 0 0 1 2 3.5 only males available masuthi was there so workship placehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283382591.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283382591.png
67 741949 13.1137284 80.2829251 1 0 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 4.1 if safety camera available in sense will make effective in all areas area without wine shop will be most effective http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283384841.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283384841.png
68 741950 13.1141888 80.2827574 2 0 3 2 2 3 2 2 2 4.4 main road adjacent market roads and parking need to improve mentioned by the female http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283386461.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283386461.png
69 741951 13.1154323 80.2827524 2 2 3 2 2 2 2 1 3 4.5 parking space need to improved many accidents happening because there is no speed breaker http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283389401.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283389401.png
70 741952 13.133675 80.2925784 2 1 3 2 2 1 2 3 2 4.4 more space is there but not I organized manner walk path not designed in http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283401521.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283401521.png
71 741953 13.1346297 80.2927127 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 4.3 safe people always presence because many houses were therehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283403251.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283403251.png
72 741954 13.135827 80.2930023 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 4.1 lights were less parking area should develophttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283404441.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283404441.png
73 741955 13.1361983 80.2928531 2 1 2 2 2 3 1 3 2 4.4 more females occupied http://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283406091.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283406091.png
74 741956 13.1342275 80.2926216 1 1 3 2 2 1 2 2 2 4.3 safe lights  are less auto stand and metro is very nearhttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283408131.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283408131.png
75 741957 13.1333539 80.2930574 1 0 2 1 1 0 1 1 1 1.6 it's purely seems commercial area no houses available church was there people occupancy was less that too only males  availablehttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/016283409811.pnghttp://api-android.safetipin.com/yii/SAFETIPIN/images/116283409811.png
APPENDIX
This section includes the CSV files generated for Tondiarpet as examples. These files have geo location for each 
audit point along with the ratings of every parameter. Every audit point is also accompanied by the images 
collected at that particular audit location. These files could be integrated with any GIS platform and analysed 
further. These could be also seen on Google Maps for easier visualisation. 
  
APPENDIX
MY SAFETIPIN CSV FILE
S No  ID  Latitude  Longitude  Lighting  Walkpath  Public 
Transport  Visibility  People  Gender 
Usage  Security  Openness  Feeling  Safety Score  Comment  Image Link_1  Image Link_2
1 740309 13.1579438 80.3043026 3 1 2 2 2 3 0 2 2 4.3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155408-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155356-19408.jpg
2 740307 13.1590721 80.3055471 3 1 3 1 2 0 0 3 2 4.2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155502-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155506-19408.jpg
3 740173 13.1616995 80.3061801 3 2 3 2 2 0 1 3 2 4.4 D CM https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155650-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155653-19408.jpg
4 740171 13.1626606 80.3063572 3 2 3 3 2 1 1 2 2 4.4 D ZC https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155702-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155705-19408.jpg
5 740169 13.1634233 80.3064644 3 2 3 2 1 0 0 2 2 4.2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155716-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155714-19408.jpg
6 740167 13.1643113 80.3066629 3 2 3 2 2 3 0 2 2 4.4 D GB CD https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155730-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155724-19408.jpg
7 740165 13.1651209 80.3069741 3 2 2 3 2 2 0 2 2 4.4 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155738-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155745-19408.jpg
8 740163 13.1657895 80.3073925 3 2 3 2 1 0 0 2 2 4.2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155752-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155755-19408.jpg
9 740161 13.166432 80.3079772 3 2 3 2 2 1 0 2 2 4.3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155806-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155809-19408.jpg
10 740251 13.1666357 80.3083152 3 1 3 2 0 0 0 2 1 3.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19409/IMG_20210701_163336-19409.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19409/IMG_20210701_163331-19409.jpg
11 740159 13.1670536 80.3085834 3 1 3 2 2 3 0 2 2 4.4 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155816-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19409/IMG_20210701_163329-19409.jpg
12 740157 13.1677587 80.309608 3 2 3 1 1 0 1 2 2 4.2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155842-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155839-19408.jpg
13 740155 13.1683437 80.3101498 3 2 3 1 0 0 0 2 1 3.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155851-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155849-19408.jpg
14 740153 13.1689966 80.3105897 3 2 2 0 1 0 0 2 1 3 D GB https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155856-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155859-19408.jpg
15 740151 13.1698637 80.3109598 3 2 2 0 2 0 0 2 1 3.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155911-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155906-19408.jpg
16 740149 13.1707256 80.3112549 3 2 3 0 0 0 0 2 1 3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155920-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155918-19408.jpg
17 740147 13.1716344 80.3115284 3 2 3 0 0 0 0 2 1 3 D GB https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155930-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155928-19408.jpg
18 740145 13.1725224 80.3118181 3 2 3 0 2 0 0 2 1 4 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155942-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155940-19408.jpg
19 740110 13.1735723 80.3122419 3 2 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 3.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155953-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_155956-19408.jpg
20 740111 13.1745438 80.3125638 3 1 2 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160008-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160005-19408.jpg
21 740112 13.1756563 80.3129715 3 2 3 1 1 0 0 2 1 4 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160024-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160027-19408.jpg
22 740102 13.176748 80.3135186 3 1 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160042-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160040-19408.jpg
23 740100 13.1777613 80.3138673 3 2 3 2 2 0 0 2 2 4.3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160056-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160052-19408.jpg
24 740098 13.1787014 80.3141356 3 2 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 3.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160106-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160104-19408.jpg
25 740096 13.1795789 80.3145164 3 1 3 0 0 0 0 2 1 2.6 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160118-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160113-19408.jpg
26 740094 13.1804773 80.3149402 3 2 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 3.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160131-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19410/IMG_20210701_181131-19410.jpg
27 740088 13.1830261 80.3161955 3 1 3 1 2 0 3 3 2 4.4 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160212-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160203-19408.jpg
28 740113 13.1838827 80.3159326 3 1 3 1 1 0 1 2 1 4 D CD https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160229-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160226-19408.jpg
29 740114 13.1842222 80.3149724 3 1 3 1 2 0 2 2 2 4.3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160239-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160242-19408.jpg
30 740115 13.1843946 80.3145379 3 1 3 0 2 0 2 2 2 4.2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160247-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160244-19408.jpg
31 740116 13.1846296 80.3136796 3 1 3 1 2 0 3 2 2 4.3 D ZC https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160256-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160259-19408.jpg
32 740136 13.1848124 80.3130359 3 1 3 2 1 3 3 2 2 4.5 D ZC https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160306-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160310-19408.jpg
33 740135 13.1850213 80.3120166 3 3 2 0 0 0 2 2 1 4 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160329-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160335-19408.jpg
34 740134 13.1852146 80.3110886 3 3 1 0 0 0 1 2 1 3 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160348-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160345-19408.jpg
35 740133 13.1854444 80.3100318 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160404-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160359-19408.jpg
36 740132 13.1856638 80.3090823 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160418-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160421-19408.jpg
37 740131 13.1858257 80.3081703 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160428-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160433-19408.jpg
38 740130 13.1860555 80.3070813 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160440-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160441-19408.jpg
39 740129 13.1862487 80.306164 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160448-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160447-19408.jpg
40 740128 13.1863793 80.3051662 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160458-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160455-19408.jpg
41 740127 13.1862331 80.3042275 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.6 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160509-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160505-19408.jpg
42 740126 13.1861391 80.3036803 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160525-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160530-19408.jpg
43 740125 13.186489 80.304544 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160602-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160605-19408.jpg
44 740124 13.1864681 80.3055686 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160612-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160614-19408.jpg
45 740123 13.1862958 80.3064966 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160621-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160615-19408.jpg
46 740122 13.1860764 80.307489 3 3 0 0 1 3 0 2 2 4.1 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160628-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160630-19408.jpg
47 740121 13.1858988 80.3084654 3 3 0 0 1 3 0 2 2 4.1 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160640-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160635-19408.jpg
48 740120 13.1856586 80.3093451 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160647-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160644-19408.jpg
49 740119 13.1854183 80.310595 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160700-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160656-19408.jpg
50 740118 13.1852198 80.3115606 3 3 3 2 2 1 2 2 2 4.5 D https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160710-19408.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19408/IMG_20210701_160707-19408.jpg
SAFETIPIN NITE (DAY) CSV FILE
S No  ID  Latitude  Longitude  Lighting  Walkpath  Public 
Transport  Visibility  People  Gender 
Usage  Security  Openness  Feeling  Safety Score  Comment  Image Link_1  Image Link_2
1 740812 13.186489 80.3054237 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19411/IMG_20210701_185034-19411.jpg
2 740810 13.1863375 80.3060997 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19411/IMG_20210701_185039-19411.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19411/IMG_20210701_185041-19411.jpg
3 740808 13.1861495 80.307135 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185052-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185049-19412.jpg
4 740807 13.1859197 80.308063 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185102-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185059-19412.jpg
5 740806 13.1856951 80.3090555 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185112-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185109-19412.jpg
6 740805 13.1855071 80.3100747 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185122-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185117-19412.jpg
7 740804 13.1853086 80.3110886 3 3 1 0 0 0 1 2 1 3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185132-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185127-19412.jpg
8 740803 13.1851101 80.3119254 3 3 2 0 1 0 2 2 2 4.2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185140-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185137-19412.jpg
9 740802 13.184896 80.3131807 3 1 3 0 2 0 3 2 2 4.3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185202-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185155-19412.jpg
10 740801 13.1846662 80.3141141 3 1 3 0 1 3 3 2 2 4.4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185211-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185214-19412.jpg
11 740800 13.1843476 80.3150046 3 1 3 0 0 0 2 2 1 3.5 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185227-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185222-19412.jpg
12 740799 13.1840029 80.3159165 2 1 3 0 2 0 1 2 1 3.5 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185237-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185232-19412.jpg
13 740787 13.1828642 80.3159863 3 0 3 0 2 2 0 2 2 4.1 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185313-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185316-19412.jpg
14 740789 13.1819815 80.3155732 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 3 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185328-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185325-19412.jpg
15 740790 13.1811145 80.3151387 3 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185341-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185345-19412.jpg
16 740791 13.180237 80.3147042 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185353-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185356-19412.jpg
17 740792 13.1793543 80.3142858 3 0 3 0 2 0 0 2 1 3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185406-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185401-19412.jpg
18 740793 13.1785238 80.31398 3 0 3 1 1 0 0 2 1 3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185412-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185417-19412.jpg
19 740785 13.1778344 80.3138942 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185419-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185427-19412.jpg
20 740794 13.1767219 80.3135079 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185436-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185439-19412.jpg
21 740873 13.1771188 80.3129447 2 1 3 2 1 3 0 3 2 4.3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185518-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185513-19412.jpg
22 740871 13.177286 80.3119469 2 1 3 2 1 0 0 2 1 3.5 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185541-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185536-19412.jpg
23 740869 13.1775523 80.3110403 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 2 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185554-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185551-19412.jpg
24 740867 13.1777978 80.310123 1 2 2 2 1 3 1 2 2 4.3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185613-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185609-19412.jpg
25 740865 13.1780955 80.3090823 2 3 2 2 1 0 0 2 1 4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185628-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185624-19412.jpg
26 740863 13.1784194 80.308063 2 3 3 1 1 0 0 2 1 4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185649-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185643-19412.jpg
27 740809 13.1798087 80.307532 2 1 3 3 3 2 1 2 2 4.4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185747-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185753-19412.jpg
28 740776 13.1799706 80.3082401 2 1 3 3 2 0 0 2 2 4.2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185815-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185819-19412.jpg
29 740778 13.1796729 80.3092325 2 1 2 3 2 1 0 2 2 4.2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185834-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185838-19412.jpg
30 740780 13.1793752 80.3102249 2 1 2 2 2 1 0 2 2 4.1 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185849-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185853-19412.jpg
31 740782 13.1791506 80.3110564 2 1 1 2 1 0 0 2 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185903-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185908-19412.jpg
32 740784 13.1788477 80.3120649 2 1 1 2 2 0 0 2 1 3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185929-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185935-19412.jpg
33 740786 13.178597 80.3128588 2 1 2 1 2 0 0 2 1 3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185947-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_185952-19412.jpg
34 740788 13.1783776 80.3136206 2 1 3 1 2 2 0 3 2 4.3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190010-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190004-19412.jpg
35 740783 13.1785656 80.3141087 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190041-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190038-19412.jpg
36 740781 13.1793387 80.314436 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190049-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190047-19412.jpg
37 740779 13.1805139 80.3149349 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 2 1 2.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190102-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190105-19412.jpg
38 740777 13.181407 80.3153533 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190112-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190117-19412.jpg
39 740775 13.1822584 80.3157932 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 2 1 1.6 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190124-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190122-19412.jpg
40 740773 13.1831411 80.3162009 2 1 3 0 2 0 1 3 1 4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190132-19412.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19412/IMG_20210701_190135-19412.jpg
41 740841 13.1678005 80.3034979 3 1 3 3 3 1 1 2 2 4.4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193655-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193700-19413.jpg
42 740829 13.1677483 80.3042758 2 1 3 2 2 2 1 2 2 4.3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193824-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193802-19413.jpg
43 740827 13.1685318 80.3044528 2 1 3 1 1 0 1 2 1 3.5 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193830-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193834-19413.jpg
44 740825 13.1696548 80.3047103 3 1 3 3 3 1 1 2 2 4.4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193855-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193843-19413.jpg
45 740823 13.1704644 80.3049302 2 1 3 2 2 0 1 2 2 4.2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193908-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193902-19413.jpg
46 740821 13.1712792 80.3051287 3 1 3 2 3 1 1 2 2 4.4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193920-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193917-19413.jpg
47 740820 13.1722246 80.3054023 3 1 3 1 2 0 1 2 2 4.2 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193936-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193930-19413.jpg
48 740819 13.1727574 80.3055471 2 1 3 1 1 0 0 2 1 3 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_194004-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_193958-19413.jpg
49 740818 13.1736088 80.3057939 2 1 3 1 1 0 1 3 1 4 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_194029-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_194017-19413.jpg
50 740817 13.1744498 80.3060353 3 2 3 0 0 0 1 2 1 3.5 N https://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_194038-19413.jpghttps://safetipinimages.s3.amazonaws.com/20210701/19413/IMG_20210701_194034-19413.jpg
SAFETIPIN NITE (NIGHT) CSV FILE

--- PDF PAGE 30 ---
